9. Pharmacologic Approaches to
Glycemic Treatment: Standardsof Care in Diabetes —2025
Diabetes Care 2025;48(Suppl. 1):S181 –S206 |https://doi.org/10.2337/dc25-S009American Diabetes Association
Professional Practice Committee *
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes ”includes
the ADA ’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the
components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools toevaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee, aninterprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the Standards ofCare annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed description of ADA
standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading system for
ADA ’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice
Committee members, please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readersw h ow i s ht oc o m m e n to nt h eS t a n d a r d so fC a r ea r ei n v i t e dt od os oa tprofessional.diabetes.org/SOC.
PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY FOR ADULTS WITH TYPE 1 DIABETES
Recommendations
9.1Treat most adults with type 1 diabetes with continuous subcutaneous insulin in-
fusion or multiple daily doses of prandial (injected or inhaled) and basal insulin. A
9.2For most adults with type 1 diabetes, insulin analogs (or inhaled insulin)
are preferred over injectable human insulins to minimize hypoglycemia risk. A
9.3Early use of continuous glucose monitoring is recommended for adults
with type 1 diabetes to improve glycemic outcomes and quality of life and to
minimize hypoglycemia. B
9.4Automated insulin delivery systems should be offered to all adults with
type 1 diabetes. A
9.5To improve glycemic outcomes and quality of life and to minimize hypogly-
cemia risk, most adults with type 1 diabetes should receive education on howto match mealtime insulin doses to carbohydrate intake and fat and protein in-take. They should also be taught how to modify the insulin dose (correctiondose) based on concurrent glycemia, glycemic trends (if available), sick-day man-agement, and anticipated physical activity. B
9.6Insulin treatment plan and insulin-taking behavior should be reevaluated
at regular intervals (e.g., every 3 –6 months) and adjusted to incorporate spe-
ciﬁc factors that impact choice of treatment and ensure achievement of indi-
vidualized glycemic goals. E
Insulin Therapy
Insulin treatment is essential for individuals with type 1 diabetes because the hallmark
of type 1 diabetes is absent or near-absent b-cell function. In addition to hyperglycemia,*A complete list of members of the American
Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committeecan be found at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc25-SINT.
Duality of interest information for each author is
available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc25-SDIS.
Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association
Professional Practice Committee. 9. Pharmacologicapproaches to glycemic treatment: Standards ofCare in Diabetes —2025. Diabetes Care 2025;48
(Suppl. 1):S181 –S206
© 2024 by the American Diabetes Association.
Readers may use this article as long as thework is properly cited, the use is educationaland not for pro ﬁt, and the work is not altered.
More information is available at https://www.diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.9. PHARMACOLOGIC APPROACHES TO GLYCEMIC TREATMENTDiabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025 S181Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

insulinopenia can contribute to other met-
abolic disturbances like hypertriglyceride-mia and ketoacidosis as well as tissuecatabolism that can be life threatening.Severe metabolic decompensation can be,
and was, mostly prevented with once- or
twice-daily insulin injections for the six orseven decades after the discovery of insu-lin. Over the past four decades, evidence
has accumulated supporting more inten-
sive insulin replacement, using multipledaily injections of insulin or continuoussubcutaneous administration through an
insulin pump, as providing the best com-
bination of effectiveness and safety forpeople with type 1 diabetes.
The Diabetes Control and Complications
Trial (DCCT) demonstrated that intensive
therapy with multiple daily injections or
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion(CSII) reduced A1C and was associatedwith improved long-term outcomes (1 –3).
The study was carried out with short-acting
(regular) and intermediate-acting (NPH)
human insulins. In this landmark trial,lower A1C with intensive management(7%) led to /C2450% reductions in micro-
vascular complications over 6 years of
treatment. However, intensive therapy wasassociated with a higher rate of severehypoglycemia than conventional treat-
ment (62 compared with 19 episodes per
100 person-years of therapy) (1). Follow-up of participants from the DCCT demon-strated fewer macrovascular and micro-vascular complications in the group that
received intensive treatment. Achieving
intensive glycemic goals during the activetreatment period of the study had a per-sistent bene ﬁcial impact over the 20 years
after the active treatment component of
the study ended (1 –3).
Insulin replacement plans typically con-
sist of basal insulin, mealtime insulin, andcorrection insulin ( Fig. 9.1 ) (4). Basal insu-
lin includes NPH insulin, long-acting insu-
lin analogs, and continuous delivery ofrapid-acting insulin via an insulin pump.Basal insulin analogs have longer duration
of action with ﬂatter, more constant and
consistent plasma concentrations andactivity pro ﬁles than NPH insulin; rapid-
acting analogs (RAA) have a quicker onsetand peak and shorter duration of action
than regular human insulin. In people
with type 1 diabetes, treatment with ana-log insulins is associated with less hypo-glycemia and weight gain and lower A1C
compared with injectable human insulins
(5–7). Two injectable ultra-rapid-actinganalog (URAA) insulin formulations are
available that contain excipients that ac-celerate absorption and provide more ac-
tivity in the ﬁrst portion of their pro ﬁle
compared with the other RAA (8,9). In-haled human insulin has a rapid peak andshortened duration of action comparedwith RAA (10) (see also subsection
ALTERNA-
TIVE INSULIN ROUTES IN PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY FOR
ADULTS WITH TYPE 2DIABETES ). These newer for-
mulations may cause less hypoglycemiawhile improving postprandial glucoseexcursions and administration ﬂexibility (in
relation to prandial intake) compared with
RAA (10 –12). In addition, longer-acting
basal analogs (U-300 glargine or deglu-dec) may confer a lower hypoglycemiarisk compared with U-100 glargine in in-dividuals with type 1 diabetes (13,14).
Despite the advantages of insulin ana-
logs in individuals with type 1 diabetes,the expense and/or complexity of treat-ment required for their use may be pro-hibitive ( Table 9.1 ). There are multiple
approaches to insulin treatment. The cen-
tral precept in the management of type 1
diabetes is that some form of insulin begiven in a de ﬁned treatment plan tailored
to the individual to prevent diabetic ke-toacidosis (DKA) and minimize clinically
relevant hypoglycemia while achieving the
individual ’s glycemic goals. The impact of
the introduction of interchangeable biosi-milars and unbranded versions of someanalog products as well as current and up-coming price reductions on insulin access
need to be evaluated. Reassessment of in-
sulin-taking behavior and adjustment oftreatment plans to account for speci ﬁcf a c -
tors, including cost, that impact choice oftreatment is recommended at regular in-
tervals (every 3 –6m o n t h s ) .
Most studies comparing multiple daily
injections with CSII have been relativelysmall and of short duration. A systematicreview and meta-analysis concluded that
CSII via pump therapy has modest advan-
tages for lowering A1C ( /C00.30% [95% CI
/C00.58 to /C00.02]) and for reducing severe
hypoglycemia rates in children and adults(15). Use of CSII is associated with im-provement in quality of life, particularly in
areas related to fear of hypoglycemia and
diabetes distress, compared with multipleplans
plans
Figure 9.1 —Choices of insulin plans in people with type 1 diabetes. Continuous glucose moni-
toring improves outcomes with injected or infused insulin and is superior to blood glucosemonitoring. Inhaled insulin may be used in place of injectable prandial insulin in the U.S. Thenumber of plus or dollar signs is an estimate of relative association of the plan with greaterﬂexibility, lower risk of hypoglycemia, and higher costs between the different plans. LAA,
long-acting insulin analog; MDI, multiple daily injections; RAA, rapid-acting insulin analog;URAA, ultra-rapid-acting insulin analog. Adapted from Holt et al. (4).S182 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

Table 9.1 —Examples of subcutaneous insulin treatment plans
Plans Timing and distribution Advantages Disadvantages Adjusting doses
Plans that more closely mimic normal insulin secretion
Insulin pump therapy (also including
AID systems: hybrid closed-
loop, low-glucose suspend,
CGM-augmented open-loop,BGM-augmented open-loop)Basal delivery of URAA or RAA;
generally 30 –50% of TDD.
Mealtime and correction: URAA or
RAA by bolus based on ICR
and/or ISF and target glucose,
with premeal insulin /C2415 min
before eating.Can adjust basal rates for varying
insulin sensitivity by time ofday, for exercise, and for sickdays.
Flexibility in meal timing and
content.
Pump can deliver insulin in
increments of fractions of units.
Potential for integration with CGM
for AID systems.
TIR % highest and TBR % lowest
with: hybrid closed-loop >low-
glucose suspend >CGM-
augmented open-loop >BGM-
augmented open-loop.Most expensive plan.
Must continuously wear one or more
devices.
Risk of rapid development of ketosis or
DKA with interruption of insulin
delivery.
Potential reactions to adhesives and
site infections.
Most technically complex approach
(harder for people with lowernumeracy or literacy skills).Mealtime insulin: if carbohydrate
counting is accurate, change ICR if
glucose after meal consistently out
of target.
Correction insulin: adjust ISF and/or
target glucose if correction does
not consistently bring glucose intorange.
Basal rates: adjust based on overnight,
fasting or daytime glucose outside
of activity of URAA/RAA bolus.
AID systems: carbohydrate ratio, insulin
on board, targets, and/or ISF may
be adjusted, depending on the
system. Make sure to review andadjust manual mode settings, ifavailable.
MDI: LAA 1ﬂexible doses of URAA
or RAA at mealsLAA once daily (insulin detemir or
insulin glargine may require
twice-daily dosing); generally
30–50% of TDD.
Mealtime and correction: URAA or
RAA based on ICR and/or ISF
and target glucose.Can use pens for all components.
Flexibility in meal timing and
content.
Insulin analogs cause less
hypoglycemia than human
insulins.At least four daily injections.
Most costly insulins.
Smallest increment of insulin is 1 unit
(0.5 unit with some pens).
LAAs may not cover strong dawn
phenomenon (rise in glucose in
early morning hours) as well aspump therapy.Mealtime insulin: if carbohydrate
counting is accurate, change ICR
if glucose after meal consistently
out of target.
Correction insulin: adjust ISF and/or
target glucose if correction does
not consistently bring glucoseinto range.
LAA: based on overnight or fasting
glucose or daytime glucose
outside of activity time course, orURAA or RAA injections.
MDI plans with less
ﬂexibility
Four injections daily with ﬁxed
doses of N and RAAPre-breakfast: RAA /C2420% of TDD.
Pre-lunch: RAA /C2410% of TDD.
Pre-dinner: RAA /C2410% of TDD.
Bedtime: N /C2450% of TDD.May be feasible if unable to
carbohydrate count.
All meals have RAA coverage.
N is less expensive than LAAs.Shorter duration RAA may lead to basal
deﬁcit during day; may need
twice-daily N.
Greater risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia
with N.
Requires relatively consistent
mealtimes and carbohydrate
intake.Pre-breakfast RAA: based on BGM after
breakfast or before lunch.
Pre-lunch RAA: based on BGM after
lunch or before dinner.
Pre-dinner RAA: based on BGM after
dinner or at bedtime.
Evening N: based on fasting or
overnight BGM.
Continued on p. S184diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S183Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

Table 9.1 —Continued
Plans Timing and distribution Advantages Disadvantages Adjusting doses
Four injections daily with ﬁxed
doses of N and RPre-breakfast: R /C2420% of TDD.
Pre-lunch: R /C2410% of TDD.
Pre-dinner: R /C2410% of TDD.
Bedtime: N /C2450% of TDD.May be feasible if unable to
carbohydrate count.
R can be dosed based on ICR and
correction.
All meals have R coverage.
Least expensive insulins.Greater risk of nocturnal
hypoglycemia with N.
Greater risk of delayed post-meal
hypoglycemia with R.
Requires relatively consistent
mealtimes and carbohydrate
intake.
R must be injected at least 30 min
before meal for better effect.Pre-breakfast R: based on BGM
after breakfast or before lunch.
Pre-lunch R: based on BGM after
lunch or before dinner.
Pre-dinner R: based on BGM after
dinner or at bedtime.
Evening N: based on fasting or
overnight BGM.
Plans with fewer daily injections
Three injections daily: N 1Ro r
N1RAAPre-breakfast: N /C2440% TDD 1Ro r
RAA/C2415% TDD.
Pre-dinner: R or RAA /C2415% TDD.
Bedtime: N /C2430% TDD.Morning insulins can be mixed in one
syringe.
May be appropriate for those who
cannot take injection in middle
of day.
Morning N covers lunch to some
extent.
Same advantages of RAAs over R.
Least (N 1R) or less expensive
insulins than MDI with analogs.Greater risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia
with N than LAAs.
Greater risk of delayed post-meal
hypoglycemia with R than RAAs.
Requires relatively consistent
mealtimes and carbohydrateintake.
Coverage of post-lunch glucose often
suboptimal.
R must be injected at least 30 min
before meal for better effect.Morning N: based on pre-dinner BGM.
Morning R: based on pre-lunch BGM.
Morning RAA: based on post-breakfast
or pre-lunch BGM.
Pre-dinner R: based on bedtime BGM.
Pre-dinner RAA: based on post-dinner
or bedtime BGM.
Evening N: based on fasting BGM.
Twice-daily “split-mixed ”:N1Ro r
N1RAAPre-breakfast: N /C2440% TDD 1Ro r
RAA/C2415% TDD.
Pre-dinner: N /C2430% TDD 1R or RAA
/C2415% TDD.Least number of injections for people
with strong preference for this.
Insulins can be mixed in one syringe.
Least (N 1R) or less (N 1RAA)
expensive insulins vs. analogs.
Eliminates need for doses during the
day.Risk of hypoglycemia in afternoon or
middle of night from N.
Fixed mealtimes and meal content.
Coverage of post-lunch glucose often
suboptimal.
Difﬁcult to reach targets for blood
glucose without hypoglycemia.Morning N: based on pre-dinner BGM.
Morning R: based on pre-lunch BGM.
Morning RAA: based on post-breakfast
or pre-lunch BGM.
Evening R: based on bedtime BGM.
Evening RAA: based on post-dinner or
bedtime BGM.
Evening N: based on fasting BGM.
AID, automated insulin delivery; BGM, blood glucose monitoring; CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; ICR, insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio; ISF, in sulin sensitivity factor; LAA, long-acting analog; MDI, mul-
tiple daily injections; N, NPH insulin; R, short-acting (regular) insulin; RAA, rapid-acting analog; TBR, time below range; TDD, total daily insuli n dose; TIR, time in range; URAA, ultra-rapid-acting analog
(inhaled insulin may be considered if appropriate). Adapted from Holt et al. (4).S184 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

daily injections of insulin (16,17). How-
ever, there is no consensus to guide thechoice of injection or pump therapy in agiven individual, and research to guidethis decision-making is needed (4). Inte-
gration of continuous glucose monitoring
(CGM) into the treatment plan soon afterdiagnosis improves glycemic outcomes,decreases hypoglycemic events, and im-
proves quality of life for individuals with
type 1 diabetes (18 –23). Its use is now
considered standard of care for most peo-ple with type 1 diabetes (4) (see Section 7,
“Diabetes Technology ”). Reduction of noc-
turnal hypoglycemia in individuals withtype 1 diabetes using insulin pumps withCGM is improved by automatic suspen-
sion of insulin delivery at a preset glucose
level, with further improvements whenusing devices with predictive low-glucoseinsulin delivery suspension (24,25).
Automated insulin delivery (AID) sys-
tems are safe and effective for people
with type 1 diabetes. Randomized con-trolled trials and real-world studies havedemonstrated the ability of commercially
available systems to improve achievement
of glycemic goals while reducing the risk ofhypoglycemia (26 –31). Data are emerging
on the safety and effectiveness of do-it-yourself systems (32,33). Evidence sug-
gests that an AID hybrid closed-loop sys-
tem is superior to AID sensor-augmentedpump therapy for increased percentageof time in range and reduction of hypogly-
cemia (34,35).
Intensive insulin management using a
version of CSII and CGM should be con-sidered in individuals with type 1 diabeteswhenever feasible. AID systems are pre-
ferred and should be considered for indi-
viduals with type 1 diabetes who arec a p a b l eo fu s i n gt h ed e v i c es a f e l y( e i t h e rby themselves or with a caregiver) to im-
prove time in range and reduce A1C and
hypoglycemia (26,28 –31,36 –42). When
choosing among insulin delivery systems,individual preferences, cost, insulin type,
dosing plan, and self-management capabil-
ities should be considered. See Section 7,“Diabetes Technology, ”for a full discussion
of insulin delivery devices.
In general, individuals with type 1 dia-
betes require approximately 30 –50% of
their daily insulin as basal and the remain-d e ra sp r a n d i a l( 4 3 ) .T h i sp r o p o r t i o nd e -pends on several factors, including butnot limited to carbohydrate consumption,
age, pregnancy status, and puberty stage
(4,44 –48). Total daily insulin requirementscan be estimated based on weight, with
typical doses ranging from 0.4 to 1 unit/kg/day. Higher amounts may be requiredduring puberty, menses, and medical ill-ness. The American Diabetes Association/
JDRF Type 1 Diabetes Sourcebook notes
0.5 units/kg/day as a typical starting dosein adults with type 1 diabetes who aremetabolically stable, with approximately
one-half administered as prandial insulin
given to manage blood glucose after mealsand the remaining portion as basal insulinto manage glycemia in the periods be-
tween meal absorption (49). Starting doses
and those soon after diagnosis may behigher, if an individual presents with ketoa-cidosis, or lower (0.2 –0.6 units/kg), particu-
larly in young children and those with
continued endogenous insulin production
(during the partial remission phase or“honeymoon period, ”or in people who
present with type 1 diabetes in adult-
hood) (49 –51). This guideline provides
detailed information on intensi ﬁcation
of therapy to meet individualized needs.In addition, the American Diabetes Asso-
ciation (ADA) position statement “Type 1
Diabetes Management Through the LifeSpan ”provides a thorough overview of
type 1 diabetes treatment (52).
Typical multidose treatment plans for
individuals with type 1 diabetes combine
premeal use of prandial insulins with alonger-acting formulation. The long-actingb a s a ld o s ei st i t r a t e dt or e g u l a t eo v e r -night and fasting glucose. Postprandial
glucose excursions are best managed by a
well-timed injection or inhalation of pran-dial insulin. Prandial insulin should ideallybe administered prior to meal consump-
tion; however, the optimal time to admin-
ister varies based on the pharmacokineticsof the formulation (regular, RAA, or inhaled),the premeal blood glucose level, and carbo-
hydrate consumption. Recommendations
for prandial insulin dose administrationshould therefore be individualized. Physi-ologic insulin secretion varies with glyce-mia, meal size, meal composition, and
tissue demand for glucose. To address
this variability in people treated with insu-lin, strategies have evolved to adjustprandial doses based on predicted needs.
Thus, education on how to adjust pran-
dial insulin to account for nutritional in-take and the correction dose based onpremeal glucose levels, anticipated activ-
ity, and sick-day management can be ef-
fective and should be offered to most
individuals (53 –58). Education regardingadjustment of prandial insulin dose for
glycemic trends should be provided to in-
dividuals who are using CGM alone or anAID system (59 –62). Further adjustment
of prandial insulin doses for nutritional in-take of protein and fat, in addition to car-
bohydrates, is recommended but may be
more feasible for individuals using CSIIthan for those using multiple daily injec-tions (55). With some AID systems, use ofas i m p l i ﬁed meal announcement method
may be an alternative for prandial insulin
dosing (31,63). Assessment and educa-
tion tailored to improve health literacyand numeracy may be necessary for indi-viduals to effectively use various insulindosing strategies and tools (64,65) (see
Section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health
Behaviors and Well-being to ImproveHealth Outcomes, ”and Section 7, “Diabetes
Technology ”).
The 2021 ADA/European Association
for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) consen-sus report on the management of type 1
diabetes in adults summarizes different in-
sulin plans and glucose monitoring strate-gies in individuals with type 1 diabetes(Fig. 9.1 andTable 9.1 )( 4 ) .
Insulin Administration Technique
Ensuring that individuals and/or caregivers
understand correct insulin administrationtechnique is important to optimize glyce-
mic management and insulin use safety.
Recommendations have been publishedelsewhere outlining best practices for in-sulin administration (66). Proper insulinadministration technique includes thefollowing: injection, insertion of patch or
infusion (for CSII or AID systems) into ap-
propriate body areas, or oral inhalation(inhaled human insulin); injection or in-fusion site rotation; appropriate care ofinjection or infusion sites to avoid infec-
tion or other complications; avoidance of
intramuscular (IM) insulin delivery; andﬁlling of the reservoir (for bolus patch,
CSII, or AID systems) or inhaler (for in-haled human insulin) depending on themethod of administration. Selection of
method of administration (vial and sy-
ringe, insulin pen, insulin patch, inhaledinsulin, connected insulin pens/devices,or insulin pumps) will depend on a vari-ety of individual-speci ﬁcf a c t o r sa n d
needs, cost and coverage, and individual
preferences. Reassessment of the appro-
priate administration technique shouldbe completed during routine follow-up.diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S185Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

Exogenously delivered insulin should
be injected or infused into subcutaneoustissue, not intramuscularly. Recommended
sites for insulin administration include the
abdomen, thigh, buttock, and upper arm.
I n s u l i na b s o r p t i o nf r o mI Ms i t e sd i f f e r s
from that in subcutaneous sites and is alsoinﬂuenced by the activity of the muscle.
Inadvertent IM injection can lead to un-
predictable insulin absorption and variableeffects on glucose and is associated with
frequent and unexplained hypoglycemia.
Risk for IM insulin delivery is increased in
younger, leaner individuals when injecting
into the limbs rather than truncal sites(abdomen and buttocks) and when using
longer needles. Recent evidence supports
the use of short needles (e.g., 4-mm pen
needles) as effective and well tolerated
compared with longer needles, includinga study performed in adults with obesity
(67).
Injection or infusion site rotation is ad-
ditionally necessary to avoid lipohypertro-
phy, an accumulation of subcutaneous fat
in response to the adipogenic actions of
insulin at a site of multiple injections. Lipo-
hypertrophy appears as soft, smooth raisedareas several centimeters in breadth and
can contribute to erratic insulin absorption,
increased glycemic variability, and unex-plained hypoglycemic episodes. People
treated with insulin and/or caregivers
should receive education about proper
injection or infusion site rotation and how
to recognize and avoid injecting in areas oflipohypertrophy. As noted in Table 4.1 ,e x -
amination of insulin administration sites
for the presence of lipohypertrophy, as
well as assessment of administration de-
vice use and injection technique, are keycomponents of a comprehensive diabetes
medical evaluation and treatment plan.
Proper insulin injection, infusion, or inha-
lation technique may lead to more effec-
tive use of this therapy and, as such,holds the potential for improved clinical
outcomes.
Noninsulin Treatments for Type 1
Diabetes
Injectable and oral noninsulin glucose-
lowering medications have been studiedfor their ef ﬁcacy as adjuncts to insulin
treatment of type 1 diabetes. Pramlintide
is based on the naturally occurring b-cell
peptide amylin and is approved for use in
adults with type 1 diabetes. Clinical trialshave demonstrated a modest reduction
in A1C (0.3 –0.4%) and modest weightloss (/C241 kg) with pramlintide (68). Similar
results have been reported for severalagents currently approved only for thetreatment of type 2 diabetes. The addi-tion of metformin in adults with type 1
diabetes was associated with small re-
ductions in body weight, insulin dose,and lipid levels but did not sustainablyimprove A1C (69,70). The largest clinical
trials of glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor
agonists (GLP-1 RAs) in type 1 diabeteshave been conducted with liraglutide1.8 mg daily, and results showed modest
A1C reductions ( /C240.4%), decreases in
weight ( /C245 kg), and reductions in insulin
doses (71,72). Liraglutide was also as-sessed for impact on C-peptide in individu-als with type 1 diabetes and residual
b-cell function. During treatment there
was no impact, and with liraglutide dis-continuation there was worsening of C-peptide loss compared with placebo
(73). Retrospective case series have re-
vealed potential bene ﬁts on body weight
and glycemic metrics with addition ofsemaglutide or tirzepatide for individuals
with type 1 diabetes and obesity (74,75).
Prospective studies using semaglutideare ongoing (76,77).
Sodium –glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2)
inhibitors have been studied in clinical
trials in people with type 1 diabetes, and
results showed improvements in A1C, re-duced body weight, and improved bloodpressure (78); however, SGLT2 inhibitoruse in type 1 diabetes was associated
with an increased rate of DKA (79). The
SGLT1/2 inhibitor sotagli ﬂozin has been
studied in clinical trials in people withtype 1 diabetes, and results showed im-
provements in A1C and body weight (80);
however, sotagli ﬂozin use was associated
with an eightfold increase in DKA com-pared with placebo (81). The studies that
led to the approved indication for heart
failure (HF) excluded individuals with type 1diabetes or a history of DKA (82,83). See
SGLT INHIBITION AND RISK OF KETOSIS ,l a t e ri nt h i s
section, and PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF
HEART FAILURE in Section 10, “Cardiovascular
Disease and Risk Management, ”for infor-
mation on risk mitigation with the use ofSGLT inhibitors in those with type 1 dia-
betes. The risks and bene ﬁts of adjunctive
agents continue to be evaluated, withconsensus statements providing guidanceon selection of candidates for treatment
and precautions (84).
There are currently no approved thera-
pies for preservation of C-peptide ordelaying the progression of symptomatic
type 1 diabetes. Higher C-peptide levelshave been associated with better A1C,lower risk of retinopathy, lower risk ofnephropathy, and lower risk of severehypoglycemia (85). Various therapies,including verapamil, menin inhibitors,Janus kinase inhibitors, antithymocyteglobulin, several monoclonal antibodiesincluding teplizumab, and cell therapies,are currently under active investigation.
SURGICAL TREATMENT OF TYPE 1
DIABETES
Pancreas and Islet Transplantation
Successful pancreas and islet transplanta-
tion can normalize glucose levels and miti-
gate microvascular complications of type 1
diabetes. However, people receiving thesetreatments require lifelong immunosup-pression to prevent graft rejection and/orrecurrence of autoimmune islet destruc-tion. Given the potential adverse effectsof immunosuppressive therapy, pancreastransplantation should be reserved forpeople with type 1 diabetes undergoingsimultaneous kidney transplantation,following kidney transplantation, or for
those with recurrent ketoacidosis or
severe hypoglycemia despite optimizedglycemic management (86). In much ofthe world, allogenic islet transplantationis regulated as an organ transplant. How-ever, in the U.S., allogenic islet transplan-tation is regulated as a cell therapy, andtheﬁrst such allogeneic islet cell therapy,
donislecel-jujn, was approved in 2023.Donislecel is indicated for the treatmentof adults with type 1 diabetes who areunable to reach their A1C goals because of
repeated episodes of severe hypoglyce-
mia despite intensive diabetes manage-ment and education (87). Alternativeislet sources are currently under activeinvestigation.
The 2021 ADA/EASD consensus report
on the management of type 1 diabetes inadults offers a simpli ﬁed overview of indi-
cations for b-cell replacement therapy in
people with type 1 diabetes ( Fig. 9.2 )( 4 ) .
PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY FOR
ADULTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES
Recommendations
9.7Healthy behaviors, diabetes self-
management education and support,
avoidance of therapeutic inertia, and
social determinants of health shouldS186 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

be included in the glucose-lowering
management of type 2 diabetes. A
9.8A person-centered shared decision-
making approach should guide the
choice of glucose-lowering medica-
tions for adults with type 2 diabetes.Use medications that provide suf ﬁcient
effectiveness to achieve and maintainintended treatment goals with consid-
eration of the effects on cardiovascu-
lar, kidney, weight, and other relevantcomorbidities; hypoglycemia risk; costand access; risk for adverse reactions
and tolerability; and individual prefer-
ences ( Fig. 9.3 andTable 9.2 ).E
9.9Combination therapy can be con-
sidered in adults with type 2 diabetesat treatment initiation to shorten timeto attainment of individualized treat-
ment goals. A
9.10 In adults with type 2 diabetes
and established or high risk of athero-sclerotic cardiovascular disease, thetreatment plan should include medica-tions with demonstrated bene ﬁts to
reduce cardiovascular events (e.g.,
glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor ago-nist [GLP-1 RA] and/or sodium –glucose
cotransporter 2 [SGLT2] inhibitor) forglycemic management and compre-
hensive cardiovascular risk reduction(irrespective of A1C) ( Fig. 9.3 and
Table 9.2 ).A
9.11 In adults with type 2 diabetes
who have heart failure (HF) (with eitherreduced or preserved ejection fraction),an SGLT2 inhibitor is recommended forboth glycemic management and pre-
vention of HF hospitalizations (irre-
spective of A1C) ( Fig. 9.3 ).A
9.12 In adults with type 2 diabetes
and symptomatic heart failure withpreserved ejection fraction (HFpEF)
and obesity, a GLP-1 RA with dem-
onstrated bene ﬁts for both glycemic
management and reduction of HF-related symptoms (irrespective of A1C)is recommended. A
9.13 In adults with type 2 diabetes
w h oh a v eC K D( w i t hc o n ﬁrmed esti-
mated glomerular ﬁltration rate [eGFR]
20–60 mL/min/1.73 m
2and/or albu-
minuria), an SGLT2 inhibitor or GLP-1RA with demonstrated bene ﬁti nt h i s
population should be used for both
glycemic management (irrespective ofA1C) and for slowing progression ofCKD and reduction in cardiovascularevents ( Fig. 9.3 ). The glycemic bene ﬁts
of SGLT2 inhibitors are reduced ateGFR<45 mL/min/1.73 m
2.A
9.14 In adults with type 2 diabetes and
advanced CKD (eGFR <30 mL/min/
1.73 m2), a GLP-1 RA is preferred for
glycemic management due to lowerrisk of hypoglycemia and for cardio-vascular event reduction. B
9.15 In adults with type 2 diabetes,
metabolic dysfunction –associated stea-
totic liver disease (MASLD), and over-weight or obesity, consider using aGLP-1 RA or a dual glucose-dependent
insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and
GLP-1 RA with potential bene ﬁts in
metabolic dysfunction –associated stea-
tohepatitis (MASH) for glycemicmanagement and as an adjunctive
to healthy interventions for weight
loss. B
9.16a In adults with type 2 diabetes
and biopsy-proven MASH or those athigh risk for liver ﬁbrosis (based on
noninvasive tests), pioglitazone, a GLP-1
RA, or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA is
preferred for glycemic managementdue to potential bene ﬁcial effects on
MASH. BmL/min/1.73 m2)
Figure 9.2 —Simpli ﬁed overview of indications for b-cell replacement therapy in people with type 1 diabetes. The two main forms of b-cell replace-
ment therapy are whole-pancreas transplantation and islet cell transplantation. b-Cell replacement therapy can be combined with kidney trans-
plantation if the individual has end-stage kidney disease, which may be performed simultaneously or after kidney transplantation. All decisionsabout transplantation must consider the surgical risk, metabolic need, and the choices of the individual with diabetes. GFR, glomerular ﬁltration
rate. Adapted from Holt et al. (4).diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S187Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

9.16b Combination therapy with
pioglitazone plus a GLP-1 RA can beconsidered for the treatment of hy-perglycemia in adults with type 2diabetes with biopsy-proven MASHor those at high risk of liver ﬁbrosis
(identi ﬁed with noninvasive tests)
due to potential bene ﬁcial effects
on MASH. B
9.17 Medication plan and medication-
taking behavior should be reevalua-ted at regular intervals (e.g., every
3–6 months) and adjusted as needed
to incorporate speci ﬁc factors that
impact choice of treatment ( Fig. 4.1
andTable 9.2 ).E
9.18 Treatment modi ﬁcation (in-
tensi ﬁcation or deintensi ﬁcation)
for adults not meeting individual-ized treatment goals should not bedelayed. A
9.19 Choice of glucose-lowering ther-
apy modi ﬁcation should take into con-
sideration individualized glycemic andweight goals, presence of comorbidities(cardiovascular, kidney, liver, and othermetabolic comorbidities), and the riskof hypoglycemia. A
9.20 When initiating a new glucose-
lowering medication, reassess the needfor and/or dose of medications withhigher hypoglycemia risk (i.e., sulfo-nylureas, meglitinides, and insulin) tominimize the risk of hypoglycemiaand treatment burden. A
9.21 Concurrent use of dipeptidyl pep-
tidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors with a GLP-1RA or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA isnot recommended due to lack of ad-ditional glucose lowering beyond thatof a GLP-1 RA alone. B
9.22 In adults with type 2 diabetes
who have not achieved their individu-alized weight goals, additional weightmanagement interventions (e.g., in-tensiﬁcation of lifestyle modi ﬁcations,
structured weight management pro-grams, pharmacologic agents, or met-abolic surgery, as appropriate) arerecommended. A
9.23 In adults with type 2 diabetes,
initiation of insulin should be consid-ered regardless of background glucose-lowering therapy or disease stage ifsymptoms of hyperglycemia are pre-sent or when A1C or blood glucose
levels are very high (i.e., A1C >10%
[>86 mmol/mol] or blood glucose
$300 mg/dL [ $16.7 mmol/L]). E9.24 In adults with type 2 diabetes
and no evidence of insulin de ﬁciency,
a GLP-1 RA, including a dual GIP andGLP-1 RA, is preferred to insulin(Fig. 9.4 ).A
9.25 If insulin is used, combination ther-
apy with a GLP-1 RA, including a dualGIP and GLP-1 RA, is recommended for
greater glycemic effectiveness as well
as bene ﬁcial effects on weight and hy-
poglycemia risk for adults with type 2diabetes. Insulin dosing should be re-assessed upon addition or dose escala-tion of a GLP-1 RA or dual GIP andGLP-1 RA. A
9.26 In adults with type 2 diabetes
who are initiating insulin therapy, con-tinue glucose-lowering agents (unlesscontraindicated or not tolerated) for
ongoing glycemic and metabolic bene-
ﬁts (i.e., weight, cardiometabolic, or
kidney bene ﬁts).A
A holistic, multifaceted, person-centered
approach that accounts for the complexity
of managing type 2 diabetes and itscomplications across the life span is rec-
ommended. Person-speci ﬁcf a c t o r st h a t
affect choice of treatment include indi-vidualized glycemic goals (see Section 6,“Glycemic Goals and Hypoglycemia ”), in-
dividualized weight goals (see Section 8,
“Obesity and Weight Management for
the Prevention and Treatment of Type 2
Diabetes ”), the individual ’sr i s kf o rh y p o -
glycemia, and the individual ’sh i s t o r yo f
or risk factors for cardiovascular, kidney,
liver, and other comorbidities and com-
plications of diabetes (see Section 4,“Comprehensive Medical Evaluation and
Assessment of Comorbidities, ”Section 10,
“Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Man-
agement, ”and Section 11, “Chronic Kid-
ney Disease and Risk Management ”). In
addition, treatment decisions must con-
sider the tolerability and side effect pro-ﬁles of medications, complexity of the
medication plan and the individual ’s
capacity to implement it given theirspeci ﬁc situation and context, and the
access, cost, and availability of medica-
tions. Lifestyle modi ﬁcations and health
behaviors that improve health (see Sec-tion 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Be-
haviors and Well-being to Improve Health
Outcomes ”) should be emphasized along
with any pharmacologic therapy. Section 13,
“Older Adults, ”and Section 14, “Children
and Adolescents, ”have recommendationsspeci ﬁc for older adults and for children
and adolescents with type 2 diabetes,
respectively. Section 10, “Cardiovascular
Disease and Risk Management, ”and
Section 11, “Chronic Kidney Disease and
Risk Management, ”have recommenda-
tions for the use of glucose-lowering
drugs in the management of cardio-vascular disease and kidney disease,respectively.
Choice of Glucose-Lowering Therapy
Healthy lifestyle behaviors, diabetes self-management education and support(DSMES), avoidance of therapeutic inertia,
and social determinants of health should
be considered in the glucose-loweringmanagement of type 2 diabetes. Phar-macologic therapy should be guided byperson-centered treatment factors, in-cluding comorbidities, considerations of
adverse effects (including hypoglycemia)
and treatment burden, and treatmentgoals and preferences. Shared decision-making can be facilitated during clinicalencounters through use of decision aides
and has been shown to improve A1C in
adults with type 2 diabetes, though inclinical trials the bene ﬁts of shared deci-
sion-making were limited to face-to-facediscussions (not online encounters) andto individuals with elevated A1C ( >8%)
(88). Pharmacotherapy should be started
at the time type 2 diabetes is diagnosed,without delay, unless there are contrain-dications. Medication plans should haveadequate ef ﬁcacy to achieve and main-
tain individualized treatment goals with
respect to glucose lowering, reduction ofcardiovascular and kidney disease risks,weight management, and impacts onother health conditions and treatmentburden. In adults with type 2 diabetes
and established or high risk of atheroscle-
rotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), HF,and/or chronic kidney disease (CKD), thetreatment plan should include agentsthat reduce cardiovascular and kidney
disease risk ( Fig. 9.3 andTable 9.2 )( s e e
also Section 10, “Cardiovascular Disease
and Risk Management, ”and Section 11,
“C h r o n i cK i d n e yD i s e a s ea n dR i s k
Management ”).
In individuals without ASCVD, HF, or
CKD, choice of therapy should be informedby considerations of weight management
(see Section 8, “Obesity and Weight Man-
agement for the Prevention and Treat-ment of Type 2 Diabetes ”), mitigation ofS188 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

metabolic dysfunction –associated liver dis-
ease (MASLD) or metabolic dysfunction –
associated steatohepatitis (MASH) risk (seeSection 4, “Comprehensive Medical Evalu-
ation and Assessment of Comorbidities ”),
and achievement and maintenance of
individualized glycemic goals. In general,higher-ef ﬁcacy approaches, including
combination therapy, have greater likeli-
hood of achieving treatment goals. Weight
management is a distinct treatment goal,along with glycemic management, as ithas multifaceted bene ﬁts, including reduc-
tion of A1C, reduction in hepatic steatosis,
and improvement in cardiovascular riskfactors (89 –91). For individuals with type 2
diabetes who require initiation or intensi-ﬁcation of glucose-lowering therapy to
achieve and/or maintain individualized
glycemic goals and who do not have addi-tional considerations informing choice oftherapy beyond need for glucose lower-
ing, metformin is a commonly used
medication that historically has been theﬁrst-line treatment for type 2 diabetes
(92,93). Metformin is effective and safe,
is inexpensive and widely available, and
reduces risks of microvascular complica-tions, cardiovascular events, and death(92,94,95). Metformin is available in animmediate-release form for twice-daily
dosing or as an extended-release form
that can be given once daily. Comparedwith sulfonylureas, metformin as ﬁrst--
line therapy has bene ﬁcial effects on
A1C, is weight neutral, does not cause
hypoglycemia, and reduces cardiovascu-lar mortality (96). Metformin is also moreeffective than dipeptidyl peptidase 4
(DPP-4) inhibitors in lowering A1C and
weight when used as monotherapy (97).
The principal side effects of metfor-
min are gastrointestinal intolerance dueto bloating, abdominal discomfort, and
diarrhea; these can be mitigated by grad-
ual dose titration and/or using extended-release formulation. The drug is clearedby kidney ﬁltration, and metformin may
be safely used in people with estimated
glomerular ﬁltration rate $30 mL/min/
1.73 m
2(98). Very high circulating levels
(e.g., as a result of overdose or acute kid-ney injury) have been associated with lac-
tic acidosis (99). However, the occurrence
of this complication is very rare (100) andprimarily occurs when the estimated glo-merular ﬁltration rate (eGFR) is <30 mL/
min/1.73 m
2(101). For people with an
eGFR of 30 –45 mL/min/1.73 m2,t h e r ei s
an increased risk for periodic decreasesof eGFR to #30 mL/min/1.73 m2which
heightens the risk of lactic acidosis. Met-formin use is also associated with in-creased risk of vitamin B12 de ﬁciency and
worsening of symptoms of neuropathy
(102,103), suggesting periodic testing of
vitamin B12 levels (see Section 3,“Prevention or Delay of Diabetes and
Associated Comorbidities ”).
The comparative glucose-lowering ef ﬁ-
cacy of different pharmacologic agents
has been examined primarily in networkmeta-analyses, as few prospective clinicaltrials have compared multiple drug clas-
ses head-to-head. In general, the largest
reductions in A1C levels are achieved bytreatment plans that include insulin, se-lect GLP-1 RAs (particularly semaglutide),
and tirzepatide, while DPP-4 inhibitors re-
sulted in the smallest reductions in A1C(104–106). In A Diabetes Outcome Progres-
sion Trial (ADOPT), rosiglitazone monother-apy was more effective than metformin
and glyburide monotherapies in achieving
and maintaining fasting plasma glucosebelow 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L) amongrecently diagnosed individuals with type 2
diabetes whose baseline fasting plasma
glucose was 126 –180 mg/dL (7 –10 mmol/L),
while glyburide was least effective (107).More recently, the Glycemia Reduction
Approaches in Type 2 Diabetes: A Com-
parative Effectiveness (GRADE) trial com-pared use of insulin glargine U-100,liraglutide, sitagliptin, and glimepiride as add-on treatments to metformin monotherapy
among individuals with type 2 diabetes
and baseline A1C 6.8 –8.5% (108). It found
that at 5 years, all therapies decreasedA1C levels but glargine and liraglutide
were modestly more effective in achiev-
ing and maintaining A1C below 7%, whilesitagliptin was least effective. Severe hy-poglycemia was signi ﬁcantly more com-
mon in those prescribed glargine or
glimepiride. An observational study thatemulated many of GRADE ’s design fea-
tures and included canagli ﬂozin as a com-
parator arm, but did not include insulin
glargine, found that liraglutide was more
effective at achieving and maintainingA1C below 7% than sitagliptin, canagli ﬂo-
zin, or glimepiride, which all had compa-
rable effectiveness (108).
Thus, when choosing a glucose-lowering
medication to achieve individualized gly-cemic goals, we recommend engaging inshared decision-making and considering
factors such as glucose-lowering ef ﬁcacy,
t h es i d ee f f e c tp r o ﬁle, and medicationaccessibility and affordability (108). In all
cases, treatment plans need to be contin-
uously reviewed for ef ﬁcacy, side effects,
hypoglycemia, and treatment burden(Table 9.2 ).
When A1C is $1.5% above the individ-
ualized glycemic goal (see Section 6,“Glycemic Goals and Hypoglycemia, ”for
appropriate goals), many individuals will
require dual-combination therapy or amore potent glucose-lowering agent toachieve and maintain their goal A1C level(89) ( Fig. 9.3 and Table 9.2 ). Insulin
should be considered as part of any com-
bination medication plan when hypergly-cemia is severe, especially if catabolicfeatures (weight loss, hypertriglyceride-mia, and ketosis) are present. It is com-mon practice to initiate insulin therapy
for people who present with blood glu-
cose levels $300 mg/dL ( $16.7 mmol/L)
or A1C >10% (>86 mmol/mol) or if the
individual has symptoms of hyperglyce-mia (i.e., polyuria or polydipsia) or evi-
dence of catabolism (unexpected weight
loss) ( Fig. 9.4 ). As glucose toxicity re-
solves, simplifying the medication planand/or changing to noninsulin agents ispossible. Additionally, there is evidencethat people with type 2 diabetes and se-
vere hyperglycemia can also be effectively
treated with a sulfonylurea, a GLP-1 RA,or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, though evi-dence is scarce for individuals with base-line A1C above 10 –12% (104,109 –111).
GLP-1 RAs and tirzepatide have additional
beneﬁts over insulin and sulfonylureas,
speciﬁcally lower risks for hypoglycemia
(both) and favorable weight (both), car-diovascular (GLP-1 RAs), kidney (GLP-1RAs), and liver (both) end points.
Combination Therapy
Because type 2 diabetes is a progressive
disease, maintenance of glycemic goals
often requires combination therapy. Tra-ditional recommendations have called forthe use of stepwise addition of medica-tions to metformin to maintain A1C goals.T h ea d v a n t a g eo ft h i si st op r o v i d eac l e a r
assessment of the positive and negative
effects of new drugs and reduce potentialside effects and expense (112). However,some data support initial combinationtherapy for more rapid attainment of glyce-mic goals (113,114) and later combination
therapy for longer durability of glycemic
effect (115). Initial combination therapyshould be considered in people presentingdiabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S189Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

Figure 9.3 —Use of glucose-lowering medications in the management of type 2 diabetes. The left side of the algorithm prioritizes mitigation of dia-
betes-related complications and end-organ effects, while the right side addresses weight and glucose management goals. ACEi, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor; ACR, albumin-to-creatinine ratio; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular dise ase;
CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; CKD, chronic kidney disease; CV, cardiovascular; CVD, cardiovascular disease; CVOT, cardiovascular out-comes trial; DPP-4i, dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor; DSMES, diabetes self-management education and support; eGFR, estimated glomerular ﬁltra-
tion rate; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; HF, heart failure; HFpEF, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; HFrEF, hea rt
failure with reduced ejection fraction; HHF, hospitalization for heart failure; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular events; MASH, metabolic dys-function –associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction –associated steatotic liver disease; MI, myocardial infarction; SDOH, social de-
terminants of health; SGLT2i, sodium –glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor; T2D, type 2 diabetes. Adapted from Davies et al. (89).S190 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

Table 9.2 —Features of medications for lowering glucose in type 2 diabetes
Medication 
(route of 
administration)Glucose-
lowering 
efficacy1Hypoglycemia risk Weight effects
2CV effects Kidney effects
MASH 
effects Clinical considerations and adverse effects Effect on MACE Effect on HFProgression of 
CKD Dosing/use considerations*
Metformin
(oral)High No Neutral 
(potential for modest loss)Potential
benefitNeutral Neutral • Contraindicated with 
eGFR <30 mL/min/  1.73 m
2Neutral • GI side effects: mitigate with slow dose 
titration, extended-release formulations, and administration with food.
• Potential for vitamin B12 deficiency: monitor and 
replete as appropriate.
SGLT2 
inhibitors(oral)Intermediate 
to highNo Loss 
(intermediate)Benefit:
canagliflozin,empagliflozinBenefit:
canagliflozin,dapagliflozin,
empagliflozin,
ertugliflozinBenefit:
canagliflozin,dapagliflozin,
empagliflozin• See labels of individual 
agents for dosage considerations for kidney 
function
• Glucose-lowering effect 
is minimal at eGFR <45 
mL/min/1.73 m
2 and  
lower; continue for 
cardiovascular and kidney benefit until dialysis or 
transplantationUnknown • DKA risk in individuals with insulin deficiency  
(rare in T2D): disconti nue, evalu ate, and treat 
promptly if suspected; be aware of predisposing 
risk factors and clinical presentations (including 
euglycemic DKA); mitigate risk with sick-day 
planning; discontinue before scheduled surgery 
(e.g., 3-4 days), during critical illness, or during prolonged fasting.
• Genital mycotic in fections: mitigate risk with genital 
hygiene and avoid use in high-risk individuals. 
• Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum (Fournier 
gangrene): rare; prompt treatment if suspected.
• Intravascular volume depletion: attention to  
volume status and blood pressure, particularly 
when ill or fasting; adjust other volume-contracting agents as applicable; monitor kidney 
function upon initiation.
GLP-1 RAs
(SQ; semaglutide 
also available in 
oral formulation)High to 
very highNo Loss 
(intermediate to very high)Benefit: 
dulaglutide, liraglutide, 
semaglutide 
(SQ)Neutral Benefit for renal 
end points in  
CVOTs, driven 
by albuminuria 
outcomes: dulaglutide, liraglutide, 
semaglutide 
(SQ)• See labels of individual 
agents for dosage considerations for kidney 
function
• No dose adjustment for 
dulaglutide, liraglutide, orsemaglutide
• Monitor kidney function 
when initiating or 
escalating doses in individuals with kidney 
impairment reporting 
severe adverse GI 
reactionsPotential 
benefit• Thyroid C-cell tumors identified in rodents; 
human relevance not determined. 
• Ileus: risk level is not well established; provide 
guidance on discontinuation prior to surgical 
procedures.
• Pancreatitis: acute pancreatitis has been 
reported, but causality has not been established. 
Do not initiate if at high risk for pancreatitis, and 
discontinue if pancr eatitis is suspected.
• Biliary disease: evaluate for gallbladder disease if 
cholelithiasis or cholecystitis is suspected; avoid 
use in at-risk individuals.
• Diabetic retinopathy: close monitoring of  
retinopathy in those at high risk (older individuals  
and those with longer duration of T2D [≥10 years]). 
• Impact on drug absorption: orally administered 
drug absorption may be impaired during dose 
titration (including of oral contraceptives).
• GI side effects: counsel on potential for GI side 
effects; provide guidance on dietary modifications to mitigate GI side effects (reduction in meal 
size, mindful eating practices [e.g. stop eating 
once full], decreasing intake of high-fat or spicy 
food); consider slower dose titration for those 
experiencing GI challenges. Not recommended for individuals with gastroparesis.Neutral: 
exenatide
once weekly,
lixisenatideDemonstrated 
benefit for 
progression 
of CKD for 
semaglutide 
(SQ)
Dual GIP and 
GLP-1 RA(SQ)Very high No Loss 
(very high)Under 
investigation Under 
investigation Under 
investigation • See labels of individual 
agents for dosage considerations for kidney function
• No dose adjustment • Monitor kidney function 
when initiating or 
escalating doses in 
individuals with kidney 
impairment reporting severe adverse GI reactionsPotential 
benefit
DPP-4 
inhibitors
(oral)Intermediate No Neutral Neutral Neutral 
(potential risk: 
saxagliptin)Neutral • Dose adjustment required 
based on kidney function 
(sitagliptin, saxagliptin, alogliptin)
• No dose adjustment 
required for linagliptinUnknown • Pancreatitis has been reported, but causality has 
not been established. Discontinue if pancreatitis 
is suspected.
• Postmarketing con cerns about joint pain  
(consider discontinuing if debilitating and other treatment options are feasible) and bullous pemphigoid (discontinue if suspected).
Pioglitazone
(oral)High No Gain Potential 
benefitIncreased risk Neutral • No dose adjustment 
required
• Generally not 
recommended in 
kidney impairment due 
to potential for fluid 
retentionPotential 
benefit• Increased risk of HF and fluid retention. Do not 
use in the setting of HF.
• Risk of bone fractures.
• Bladder cancer: do not use in individuals with 
active bladder cancer, and use caution in those 
with prior history of bladder cancer.
Sulfonylureas
(2nd 
generation)(oral)High Yes Gain Neutral Neutral Neutral • Glyburide: generally not 
recommended in CKD
• Glipizide and glimepiride: 
initiate conservatively to avoid hypoglycemiaUnknown • FDA Special Warning on increased risk of 
CV mortality based on studies of an older 
sulfonylurea (tolbutamide); glimepiride shown 
to be CV safe (see text).
• Use with caution in individuals at risk for 
hypoglycemia, particularly if in combination 
with insulin.
Insulin (human)
(SQ; regularinsulin also available 
as inhaled 
formulation)High to 
very highYes Gain Neutral Neutral Neutral • Lower insulin doses 
required with a decrease in eGFR; titrate per clinical responseUnknown • Injection site reactions
• Higher risk of hypoglycemia with human insulin 
(NPH or premixed formulations) vs. analogs
• Risk of hypoglycemia and duration of activity 
increases with the severity of impaired kidney 
function. 
• Refer to device-specific instructions for insulins 
compatible with different delivery systems (i.e., 
pumps, connected insulin pens, insulin patches).Insulin 
(analogs)(SQ)
CKD, chronic kidney disease; CV, cardiovascular; DKA, diabetic ketoacidosis; DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; eGFR, estimated glomerular ﬁltration
rate; FDA, U.S. Food and Drug Administration; GI, gastrointestinal; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like
peptide 1 receptor agonist; HF, heart failure; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular events; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepa-titis; SGLT2, sodium –glucose cotransporter 2; SQ, subcutaneous; T2D, type 2 diabetes. *For agent-speci ﬁc dosing recommendations, please re-
fer to manufacturers ’prescribing information.
1Tsapas et al. (106).2Tsapas et al. (241). Adapted from Davies et al. (89).diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S191Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

2
Initiate appropriate st arting dose for agent selected (varies within class)
Start 10 units per day OR 0.1-0.2 units/kg per dayTitrate to maintenance dose (varies within class)
If on bedtime NPH, consider converting 
to twice-daily NPH plan
Conversion based on individual needs and current glycemic 
management. The following is one possible approach:
•    Total dose = 80% of current bedtime NPH dose
• 2/3 given in the morning
• 1/3 given at bedtime
• Titrate based on individualized needsConsiderations for adding basal insulin3
Choice of basal insulin should be ba sed on person-specific considerat ions, including cost. Refer to Table 9.4  for insulin 
cost information. Consider prescription of glucagon for emergent hypoglycemia.
Stepwise doses of prandial insulin 
(i.e., two, then three additional injections) 
Proceed to full basal-bolus plan 
(i.e., basal insulin and prandial insulin with 
each meal) Consider self-mixed/split insulin plan 
Can adjust NPH and short/rapid-
acting insulins separately 
• Total NPH dose = 80% of current NPH dose 
at the same total
• 2/3 given before breakfast
• 1/3 given before dinner 
• Add 4 units of short/rapid-acting insulin to 
each injection or 10% of reduced NPH dose
• Titrate each component of the plan based 
on individualized needsConsider twice-daily premixed insulin plan
• Usually unit per unit at the same total 
insulin dose, but may require adjustment to 
individual needs
• Titrate based on in dividualized needsInitiation and titration of basal analog or bedtime NPH insulin4
•    Set FPG goal (see Section 6, "Glycemic Goals and Hypoglycemia")
• Choose evidence-based ti tration algorithm, e.g., increase 2 units ev ery 3 days to reach FPG goal without 
hypoglycemia
Initiation and titration of prandial insulin5,6
Usually one dose with the largest meal or meal with greatest PPG excursion; 
prandial insulin can be dosed individually  or mixed with NPH as appropriate
• 4 units per day or 10% of basal insulin dose
•    If A1C <8% (<64 mmol/mol), consider lowering the
      basal dose by 4 unit s per day or 10% of basal dose ••Assess adequacy of insulin dose at every visit
Consider clinical signals to evaluate for over basalization and need to consider adjunc tive therapies (e.g., elevated bedtime-
to-morning and/or postprandial-to-preprandial differential, hypoglycemia [aware or unaware], high glucose variability)If A1C is above goal 
If A1C  is above goal If A1C  is above goalclasses in combination and  with insulin (may use fixed-ratio product, if available and appropriate)3
• If A1C remains above goal:    If A1C is above goal and the indivi dual is not already on a GLP-1 RA or  dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, consider these Use principles in Figure 9.3, including reinforc ement of behavioral interventions (weight management 
and physical activity) and provision of DSME S, to meet individualized treatment goalsTo avoid 
therapeutic 
inertia, reassess 
and modify 
treatment 
regularly 
(3-6 months)
1. Consider insulin as the first injectable if symptoms of hyperglycemia are present, when A1C or blood glucose levels are very  high (i.e., A1C >10% [>86 mmol/mol] or blood glucose ≥300 mg/dL [≥16.7
 
4. Consider switching from eveni ng NPH to a basal analog if the individual develo ps hypoglycemia and/or frequently forgets to a dminister NPH in the evening and would be better managed with a morning dose 
of a long-acting basal Insu lin. Consider dosing NPH in the morning for steroid-induced hyperglycemia.
5. Prandial insulin options include injectable rapid- and ultra-rapi d-acting analog insulins, inje ctable short-acting human ins ulin, or inhaled human insulin.
6. If adding prandial insulin to NPH, consider initiation of a self-mixed or premixed insulin plan to decrease the number of in jections required.If injectable therapy is needed to reduce A1C1
If already on GLP-1 RA or dual GIP/GLP-1 RA, or if
these are not appropriate, or if insulin is preferred
For hypoglycemia: determine cause; if no  clear reason, lower dose by 10-20%
Increase dose by 1-2 units insulin dose or 10-15%
twice weeklyFor hypoglycemia: determine cause; if no clear
reason, lower corresponding dose by 10-20%
mmol/L]), or when a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes is a possibility.
2.   When selecting GLP-1 RAs, consider in dividual preference, A1C lowering, weight-lo wering effect, and fr equency of injection . If CVD is present, consider GLP-1 RA with  proven CVD benefit; oral or injectable 
GLP-1 RAs are appropriate.
3.   For people on GLP-1 RA and basal Insulin combination, consider use of  a fixed-ratio combination product (IDegLira or iGlar Lixi). 
Figure 9.4 —Intensifying to injectable therapies in type 2 diabetes. DSMES, diabetes self-management education and support; FPG, fasting plasma
glucose; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide; PPG, postprandial glucose.Adapted from Davies et al. (242).S192 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

with A1C levels 1.5 –2.0% above their indi-
vidualized goal. Finally, incorporationof high-glycemic-ef ﬁcacy therapies or
therapies for cardiovascular and kidneydisease risk reduction (e.g., GLP-1 RAs,
dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, and SGLT2 inhibi-
tors) may reduce the need for agents thatincrease the risks of hypoglycemia andweight gain or are less well tolerated.
Thus, treatment intensi ﬁcation requires
purposeful selection of medications inalignment with multiple individualizedperson-centered treatment goals simul-
taneously ( Fig. 9.3 ).
Treatment intensi ﬁcation, deintensi ﬁ-
cation, or modi ﬁcation, as appropriate,
for people not meeting individualizedtreatment goals should not be delayed
(therapeutic inertia) (116). Results from
comparative effectiveness meta-analysessuggest that each new class of oral nonin-sulin agents when added to metformingenerally lowers A1C by approximately
0.7–1.0% (8 –11 mmol/mol). Addition of
GLP-1 RAs or the dual GIP and GLP-1 RAto metformin usually results in 1 to $2%
lowering of A1C (104,117,118) ( Fig. 9.3
and Table 9.2 ). We do not recommend
using GLP-1 RAs (or the dual GIP andGLP-1 RA) together with a DPP-4 inhibitoras there is no added glucose-lowering
beneﬁt beyond that of the GLP-1 RA
alone (119 –121).
When even greater potency of glucose
reduction is needed, basal insulin, eitherhuman NPH or a long-acting insulin ana-
log, should be initiated. However, if the
individual is not already receiving GLP-1RA or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA therapy,an agent from these classes should bestarted ﬁrst, as it may be suf ﬁcient for
achieving individualized A1C goals but
with lower risk of hypoglycemia and withfavorable weight, cardiovascular, kidney,and liver pro ﬁles. While most GLP-1 RAs
are injectable medications, an oral formu-
lation of semaglutide is commercially avail-able (122). In trials analyzing the additionof an injectable GLP-1 RA, dual GIP and
GLP-1 RA, or insulin in people needing fur-
ther glucose lowering, glycemic ef ﬁcacies
of GLP-1 RAs and the dual GIP and GLP-1RA were similar to or greater than that ofbasal insulin (123 –130). GLP-1 RAs and
dual GIP and GLP-1 RA in these trials also
had a lower risk of hypoglycemia and ben-eﬁcial effects on body weight compared
with insulin, albeit with greater gastroin-
testinal side effects. Thus, trial results sup-
port high-potency GLP-1 RAs and dual GIPand GLP-1 RA as the preferred options for
individuals requiring more intensive glu-cose management ( Fig. 9.4 ).
In individuals who are intensi ﬁed to in-
sulin therapy, combination therapy with aGLP-1 RA or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA hasbeen shown to have greater ef ﬁcacy and
durability of glycemic treatment effects,as well as weight and hypoglycemia bene-ﬁts, than treatment intensi ﬁcation with
insulin alone (89,131). However, cost, ac-cessibility, and tolerability are importantconsiderations for GLP-1 RA and dual GIPand GLP-1 RA use.
In all cases, treatment plans need to
be continuously reviewed for ef ﬁcacy,
side effects (including hypoglycemia), andtreatment burden ( Table 9.2 ). In some
instances, the individual will require
medication reduction or discontinuation.Common reasons for this include ineffec-tiveness, hypoglycemia, intolerable sideeffects, new contraindications, expense,or a change in glycemic goals (e.g., in re-sponse to development of comorbid-ities). See below for cost considerationsof glucose-lowering therapies (
MEDICATION
COSTS AND AFFORDABILITY ). Section 13, “Older
Adults, ”has a full discussion of treatment
considerations in older adults. Treatmentdeintensi ﬁcation may also be needed in
the setting of weight loss and/or optimiza-tion of lifestyle behaviors, when fewerpharmacologic agents are needed tomaintain A1C goals. In this case, we rec-ommend preferential deescalation oftherapies that are most likely to causeside effects, hypoglycemia, and/or treat-
ment burden and do not have cardiovas-
cular, kidney, or metabolic bene ﬁts for
continued use.
Glucose-Lowering Therapy for
People With Cardiovascular Disease
or Risk Factors for Cardiovascular
Disease
For people with type 2 diabetes and es-
tablished ASCVD or indicators of highASCVD risk, HF, or CKD, an SGLT2 inhibi-tor and/or GLP-1 RA with demonstratedcardiovascular bene ﬁt(Table 9.2 ) is recom-
mended independent of A1C, with or with-out metformin use, and in consideration ofperson-speci ﬁcf a c t o r s( Fig. 9.3 ). Individuals
with these comorbidities already achieving
their individualized glycemic goals with
other medications may bene ﬁtf r o m
switching to these preferred medicationsto reduce risk of ASCVD, HF, and/or CKDin addition to achieving glycemic goals(see Section 10, “Cardiovascular Disease
and Risk Management, ”and Section 11,
“Chronic Kidney Disease and Risk Man-
agement ”). This is particularly important
because SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1 RAs
are associated with lower risk of hypo-
glycemia and individuals with ASCVD,HF, and CKD have higher hypoglycemia
risk than individuals without these condi-
tions (132).
Individuals at lower risk for ASCVD
may still bene ﬁt from GLP-1 RA therapy
to reduce their risk of future cardiovas-cular events. The GRADE trial, which was
designed to examine the comparative ef-
fectiveness of insulin glargine U-100, gli-
mepiride, liraglutide, and sitagliptin in
individuals with relatively short durationof diabetes (and, due to study eligibility
criteria, low ASCVD risk) with respect to
achieving and maintaining A1C below 7%,
found that individuals treated with liraglu-
tide had a slightly lower risk of cardiovas-cular disease than individuals receiving
the other three treatments (hazard ratio
0.7 [95% CI 0.6 –0.9]), although no signi ﬁ-
cant differences were found for major ad-
verse cardiovascular events, hospitalizationfor HF, or cardiovascular death (133). Indi-
viduals with type 2 diabetes and moderate
levels of CVD risk appear to derive cardio-vascular and mortality bene ﬁts with prefer-
ential use of GLP-1 RA and SGLT2
inhibitors compared with sulfonylurea or
DPP-4 inhibitors (134). Similarly, while
greater reductions in HF hospitalizationr i s ka r eo b s e r v e dw i t hS G L T 2i n h i b i t o r
therapy in individuals with higher base-
line HF risk, some bene ﬁti so b s e r v e d
across the full range of HF risk (135).
Glucose-Lowering Therapy for
People With Chronic Kidney Disease
For individuals with type 2 diabetes
and CKD, considerations for selectionof glucose-lowering medications include
their effectiveness and safety when eGFR
is reduced as well as the potential to im-pact CKD progression, CVD risk, and hypo-
glycemia (136). Preferred medications for
glucose management in individuals with
CKD are GLP-1 RAs and SGLT2 inhibitors
(can be initiated if eGFR is above 20 mL/min/1.73 m
2). GLP-1 RAs are effective in
lowering glucose levels, regardless of kid-
ney function, with a low risk for hypogly-
cemia, and a recent clinical trial suggests
that the GLP-1 RA semaglutide has a ben-eﬁcial effect on CVD, mortality, and kid-
ney outcomes among people with CKD,diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S193Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

leading to the recommendation that sem-
a g l u t i d ec a nb eu s e da sa n o t h e r ﬁrst-line
agent for people with CKD (137,138).
Other GLP-1 RAs (liraglutide and dulaglu-
tide) may also have CKD bene ﬁts, but no
other dedicated kidney trials have been
published. Similarly, no dedicated kidneyoutcomes studies for the dual GIP and
GLP-1 RA (tirzepatide) have been pub-
lished. Dedicated kidney outcomes trialsin people with CKD and type 2 diabetes
have shown that the SGLT2 inhibitors em-
pagliﬂozin, canagli ﬂozin, and dapagli ﬂozin
have bene ﬁcial effects on slowing progres-
sion of CKD and CV outcomes in this popu-lation (139 –141). However, their ability to
lower glucose levels declines when the
eGFR falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m
2
(142–144). Metformin is also a preferred
agent for those with CKD due to its well-documented ef ﬁcacy and safety pro ﬁle
for all people with type 2 diabetes. How-
ever, there is no documented direct
kidney bene ﬁt. Importantly, metformin
should not be started in those whoseeGFR is <45 mL/min/1.73 m
2. For those
already treated with metformin, the
dose of metformin should be reduced
once eGFR is <45 mL/min/1.73 m2and
should be stopped once eGFR is <30 mL/
min/1.73 m2(98). A secondary analysis of
the GRADE trial found that insulin glar-
gine, liraglutide, sitagliptin, and glimepiride
did not prevent the development of CKD
when added to metformin monotherapyin individuals without underlying CKD
(145). Importantly, an SGLT2 inhibitor
was not included in the GRADE trial.
Individuals with CKD, particularly ad-
vanced CKD and kidney failure, are
at high risk for hypoglycemia (132). Iftreated with insulin and/or sulfonylur-
eas, treatment needs to be closely moni-
tored and adjusted as eGFR declines and
individuals need to be educated about
and closely monitored for hypoglycemiaoccurrence (136). See Section 11, “Chronic
Kidney Disease and Risk Management, ”
for more details about prevention and
treatment of CKD in individuals with
diabetes.
Glucose-Lowering Therapy for
People With Metabolic Comorbidities
Many adults with diabetes, either type 2
diabetes or type 1 diabetes, with obesity
are at high risk of developing MASLD or
MASH as well as MASH cirrhosis. Hence,t h ep r e s e n c eo fM A S L Do rM A S Hs h o u l d
be a consideration when choosing glucose-lowering therapies. Accruing randomized
clinical trial data suggest that pioglitazone,GLP-1 RA, and a dual GIP and GLP-1 RAhave potential bene ﬁts in terms of decreas-
ing hepatic steatosis and in the resolution
of MASH without worsening of ﬁbrosis in
individuals with biopsy-proven MASH orthose at higher risk of clinically signi ﬁcant
liver ﬁbrosis identi ﬁed with noninvasive
tests (146 –153). Combination therapy with
pioglitazone plus GLP-1 RA should also beconsidered for treatment of hyperglycemiain adults with type 2 diabetes with biopsy-
proven MASH or those at higher risk of
clinically signi ﬁcant liver ﬁbrosis identi ﬁed
with noninvasive tests, as such therapy issafe and effective and has been shown toreduce hepatic steatosis (154 –156). It is im-
portant to note that these studies are
based on phase 2 clinical trials and awaitfurther phase 3 con ﬁrmation of evidence.
However, these plans are preferred as they
offer potential bene ﬁtc o m p a r e dw i t hl a c k
of histological bene ﬁt (or clinical trial data)
from other glucose-lowering therapies inMASLD. Further details regarding liver
health in diabetes can be found in Section 4,
“Comprehensive Medical Evaluation and
Assessment of Comorbidities. ”
Obesity is present in over 90% of peo-
ple with type 2 diabetes, and in these in-
dividuals weight management is a key
treatment goal, along with glucose lower-ing. In the setting of obesity, the choice ofglucose-lowering medications should takeinto consideration their effects on weight.
Insulins, sulfonylureas, and thiazolidine-
diones can promote weight gain andshould be used judiciously and at the low-est possible dose. Glucose-lowering medi-
cations that promote weight loss should
be prioritized. Of the currently availableagents, tirzepatide and semaglutide havethe highest ef ﬁcacy in terms of glucose
lowering as well as weight loss, followed
by dulaglutide, liraglutide, and extended-release exenatide (157 –161). Other glucose-
lowering medications (metformin, SGLT2inhibitors, DPP-4 inhibitors, dopamine
agonists, bile acid sequestrants, and a-
glucosidase inhibitors) are weight neu-tral or have a modest bene ﬁcial effect
on weight. These medications can be
used as add-on therapies in people with
type 2 diabetes and obesity who requireadditional glucose lowering or if the moreeffective medications are not tolerated,
are contraindicated, or are unavailable.
Metabolic surgery, especially Roux-en-Ygastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy,are very effective interventions to achieve
both weight and glycemic goals and have
additional health bene ﬁts beyond im-
proving metabolism (162). Further detailsregarding treatment of obesity can befound in Section 8 ( “Obesity and Weight
Management for the Prevention andTreatment of Type 2 Diabetes ”).
Insulin Therapy
Many adults with type 2 diabetes eventu-
ally require and bene ﬁt from insulin ther-
apy ( Fig. 9.4 ). See INSULIN ADMINISTRATION
TECHNIQUE , above, for guidance on how to
administer insulin safely and effectively.The progressive nature of type 2 diabetesshould be regularly and objectively ex-plained to individuals with diabetes, andclinicians should avoid using insulin as athreat or describing it as a sign of per-sonal failure. The utility and importanceof insulin to achieve and maintain glyce-mic goals once progression of the diseaseovercomes the effect of other agents aswell as for temporary use for acute situa-tions (such as hospitalization, acute ill-ness, or high-dose glucocorticoid therapy)should be emphasized. Educating and in-volving people with diabetes in insulinmanagement is bene ﬁcial. For example,
instruction of individuals with type 2 dia-
betes initiating insulin on self-titration of
insulin doses based on glucose monitoringimproves glycemic management (163).Comprehensive education regarding glucosemonitoring, nutrition, physical activity,contingency planning (for illness, fasting,or medication unavailability), and the pre-vention and appropriate treatment of hy-poglycemia are critically important for allindividuals using insulin. Assessment andeducation tailored to improve health liter-acy and numeracy may be necessary forindividuals to effectively use various insu-lin dosing strategies and tools (64,65). SeeSection 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Be-
haviors and Well-being to Improve HealthOutcomes, ”for guidance on diabetes self-
management education.
Basal Insulin
Basal insulin alone is the most convenientinitial insulin treatment and can be addedto noninsulin glucose-lowering medica-tions. For individuals with type 2 diabetes,starting doses can be estimated based onbody weight (0.1 –0.2 units/kg/day) and
the degree of hyperglycemia, with indi-vidualized titration over days to weeks asS194 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

needed to achieve and maintain glycemic
goals. The principal action of basal insulinis to restrain hepatic glucose production
and limit hyperglycemia overnight and
between meals (164,165). Attainment offasting glucose goals can be achieved
with human NPH insulin or a long-acting
insulin analog. In clinical trials, long-acting
basal analogs (U-100 glargine and dete-
mir) have been demonstrated to reducethe risk of level 2 hypoglycemia and noc-
turnal hypoglycemia compared with NPH
insulin (166). Longer-acting basal analogs
(U-300 glargine or degludec) convey a
lower nocturnal hypoglycemia risk thanU-100 glargine (167,168). It is important
to understand how to convert individuals
from one basal insulin to another, as
switching insulins may be required due to
the availability of more clinically appropriateinsulin alternatives, removal of a product
from the market (i.e., insulin detemir), or
changes to insurance coverage. Often
doses can be converted unit for unit and
subsequently adjusted based on glucosem o n i t o r i n g ;h o w e v e r ,a ni n i t i a ld o s er e -
duction of 10 –20% can be used for indi-
viduals in very tight management or athigh risk for hypoglycemia and is typically
needed when switching from insulin de-
temir or U-300 glargine to another insulin
(169). Clinicians should also be aware of
the potential for overbasalization with in-sulin therapy (i.e., use of higher than clini-
cally necessary and appropriate dose of
basal insulin, typically masking insuf ﬁcient
mealtime insulin). Clinical signals that
should prompt evaluation for overbasali-zation include high bedtime-to-morning
or preprandial-to-postprandial glucose
differential (e.g., bedtime-to-morning glucose
differential $50 mg/dL [ $2.8 mmol/L]),
hypoglycemia (aware or unaware), andhigh glucose variability. Evidence of over-
basalization should prompt reevaluation
of the glucose-lowering treatment plan tobetter address postprandial hyperglyce-
mia (170).
Combination Injectable Therapy and Pran-
dial Insulin
I fb a s a li n s u l i nh a sb e e nt i t r a t e dt oa na c -
ceptable fasting blood glucose level and
A1C remains above goal, if there is evi-
dence of signi ﬁcant postprandial hyper-
glycemia, or if signs of overbasalization
are present, advancement to combination
injectable therapy is necessary ( Fig. 9.4 ).
This approach can use a GLP-1 RA or dual
GIP and GLP-1 RA added to basal insulin ormultiple doses of prandial insulin (131,171).
If an individual is not already being treatedwith a GLP-1 RA or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA,a GLP-1 RA (either as an individual productor in a ﬁxed-ratio combination with a basal
insulin product) or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA
should be considered prior to startingprandial insulin to address prandial man-agement and to lower the risks of hypo-
glycemia and weight gain associated
with insulin therapy (131,172).
Further intensi ﬁcation of insulin ther-
apy entails adding doses of prandial insu-lin to basal insulin. Starting with a single
prandial dose with the largest meal of the
day is simple and effective, and it can beadvanced to a plan with multiple prandialdoses if necessary (173). We suggest start-
ing with a prandial insulin dose of 4 units
or 10% of the amount of basal insulin atthe largest meal or the meal with thegreatest postprandial excursion. The pran-dial insulin plan can then be intensi ﬁed
based on individual needs ( Fig. 9.4 ). Alter-
natively, for an individual treated withbasal insulin in whom additional prandialcoverage is desired but administering in-
sulin prior to one or more meals is not
feasible, the medication plan can be con-verted to two doses of a premixed insulin.Each approach has advantages and dis-
advantages. For example, basal-prandial
plans offer greater ﬂexibility for individu-
als who eat on irregular schedules, havevariable meal content, or otherwise bene ﬁt
from greater individualization and ﬂexibility
in insulin administration. On the other
hand, two doses of premixed insulin is asimple, convenient means of spreadinginsulin across the day. Moreover, human
insulins, separately, self-mixed, or as pre-
mixed NPH/regular (for example, 70/30)formulations, are often less costly alterna-tives to insulin analogs.
Individuals with type 2 diabetes are
generally more insulin resistant than those
with type 1 diabetes, require higher dailydoses ( /C241 unit/kg), and have lower rates
of hypoglycemia (174). Meta-analyses of
trials comparing rapid-acting insulin ana-
logs with human regular insulin in type 2diabetes have not reported meaningfuldifferences in A1C or hypoglycemia(175,176). Titration of prandial insulin can
b eb a s e do nh o m es e l f - m o n i t o r e db l o o d
glucose or CGM. When signi ﬁcant addi-
tions to the prandial insulin dose aremade, particularly with the evening meal,
consideration should be given to decreas-
ing basal insulin to reduce risk ofhypoglycemia. When initiating intensi ﬁca-
tion of insulin therapy, metformin, SGLT2inhibitors, and GLP-1 RAs (or a dual GIPand GLP-1 RA) should be maintained, un-less adverse effects (including signi ﬁcant
treatment burden) or contraindications
are present. Use of sulfonylureas, megliti-nides, and DPP-4 inhibitors should be lim-ited or discontinued, as these medications
do not have additional bene ﬁcial effects on
cardiovascular, kidney, weight, or liver out-comes and (for sulfonylureas and megliti-nides) increase risk of hypoglycemia and
weight gain. Adjunctive use of pioglita-
zone may help to improve glycemia andreduce the amount of insulin needed, al-though potential side effects should be
considered.
Once a basal-bolus insulin plan is initi-
ated, dose titration is important, with ad-justments made in both prandial and basalinsulins based on blood glucose levels and
an understanding of the pharmacody-
namic pro ﬁle of each formulation (also
known as pattern control or pattern man-agement). In some people with type 2 dia-
betes with signi ﬁcant clinical complexity,
multimorbidity, and/or treatment burden,it may become necessary to simplify or de-intensify complex insulin plans to decreaserisk of hypoglycemia and improve quality
of life (see Section 13, “Older Adults ”).
Concentrated Insulins
Concentrated preparations may be more
convenient (fewer injections to achievegoal dose) and comfortable (less volume
to inject the desired dose and/or less in-
jection effort) for individuals and may im-prove treatment plan engagement int h o s ew i t hi n s u l i nr e s i s t a n c ew h or e q u i r e
large doses of insulin. Several concen-
trated insulin preparations are currentlyavailable. U-500 regular insulin is, by de ﬁ-
nition, ﬁve times more concentrated than
U-100 regular insulin. U-500 regular insulin
has distinct pharmacokinetics with similaronset but a delayed, blunted, and pro-longed peak effect and longer duration ofaction compared with U-100 regular insu-
lin; thus, it has characteristics more like a
premixed intermediate-acting (NPH) andregular insulin product and can be usedas two or three daily injections (177,178).
U-300 glargine and U-200 degludec are
three and two times, respectively, as con-centrated as their U-100 formulationsand allow higher doses of basal insulin
administration per volume used. U-300
glargine has a longer duration of actiondiabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S195Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

than U-100 glargine but modestly lower
efﬁcacy per unit administered (179 –181).
The U-200 formulations of insulin deglu-dec, insulin lispro, and insulin lispro-aabchave pharmacokinetics similar to thoseof their U-100 counterparts (182 –184).
While U-500 regular insulin is available inboth pre ﬁlled pens and vials, other con-
centrated insulins are available only inpreﬁlled pens to minimize the risk of dos-
ing errors. If U-500 regular insulin vials are
prescribed, the prescription should be ac-
companied by a prescription for U-500 sy-ringes to minimize the risk of dosing errors.
Alternative Insulin Routes
Insulin is primarily administered via sub-cutaneous injection or infusion. Adminis-tration devices provide some additionalvariation in the subcutaneous delivery be-yond vial and syringe versus insulin pen.Those devices include continuous insulin
pumps (programmable or automated basal
and bolus settings and ﬁxed basal and
bolus settings) and bolus-only insulinpatch pump. In addition, prandial or cor-rection insulin doses may be administeredusing inhaled human insulin. Inhaled insu-lin is available as monomers of regular hu-man insulin; studies in individuals withtype 1 diabetes suggest that inhaled insu-lin has pharmacokinetics similar to thoseof RAA (185). Studies comparing inhaled
insulin with injectable insulin have dem-
onstrated its faster onset and shorterduration compared with the RAA insulinlispro as well as clinically meaningful A1Creductions and weight reductions com-pared with the RAA insulin aspart over24 weeks (186 –188). Use of inhaled insu-
lin may result in a decline in lung function(reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 s[FEV
1]). Inhaled insulin is contraindicated
in individuals with chronic lung disease,such as asthma and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, and is not recom-
mended in individuals who smoke or whorecently stopped smoking. All individualsrequire spirometry (FEV
1) testing to iden-
tify potential lung disease prior to and af-ter starting inhaled insulin therapy.
ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR ALL INDIVIDUALS WITH
DIABETES
Recommendations
9.27 Monitor for signs of overbasal-
ization during insulin therapy, suchas signi ﬁcant bedtime-to-morning or
postprandial-to-preprandial glucosedifferential, occurrences of hypogly-cemia (aware or unaware), and highglycemic variability. When overbasal-ization is suspected, a thorough re-evaluation should occur promptly tofurther tailor therapy to the individual ’s
needs. E
9.28 Glucagon should be prescribed
for all individuals requiring intensiveinsulin therapy or at high risk for hy-poglycemia. Family, caregivers, schoolpersonnel, and others providing sup-port to these individuals should knowits location and be educated on howto administer it. Glucagon prepara-tions that do not require reconstitu-tion are preferred. B
9.29 Routinely assess all people with
diabetes for ﬁnancial obstacles that
could impede their diabetes manage-ment. Clinicians, members of the dia-betes care team, and social servicesprofessionals should work collabora-tively, as appropriate and feasible, tosupport these individuals by imple-menting strategies to reduce costs,thereby improving their access toevidence-based care. E
9.30 In adults with diabetes and
cost-related barriers, consider use oflower-cost medications for glycemicmanagement (i.e., metformin, sulfony-lureas, thiazolidinediones, and humaninsulin) within the context of theirrisks for hypoglycemia, weight gain,cardiovascular and kidney events, andother adverse effects. E
Several key aspects of insulin manage-
ment that are relevant to all peoplewith diabetes requiring insulin therapy,including available formulations, insulinplans and delivery systems, administration
technique, and overbasalization, were dis-
cussed earlier in this section. Additionalconsiderations for glucose-lowering ther-apy that may be relevant to people withall types of diabetes include glucagon co-prescription and affordability of diabetestherapies.
Glucagon
D u et ot h er i s ko fh y p o g l y c e m i aw i t hi n -
sulin treatment, all individuals treated
with insulin or who are at high risk forhypoglycemia should be prescribed glu-cagon. Individuals with diabetes who areprescribed glucagon and those in close
contact with them should be educated
on the use and administration of the in-dividual ’s prescribed glucagon product.
The glucagon product available to indi-viduals may differ based on coverage
and cost; however, products that do not
require reconstitution are preferred forease of administration (189,190). Clini-cians should routinely review the individ-ual’s access to glucagon, as appropriate
glucagon prescribing is low (191 –193).
See Section 6, “Glycemic Goals and Hy-
poglycemia, ”for additional information
on hypoglycemia and glucagon in individ-uals with diabetes.
Medication Costs and Affordability
Costs for noninsulin and insulin diabetesmedications have increased dramaticallyover the past two decades, and an in-
creasing proportion of cost is now passed
on to people with diabetes and their fam-ilies (194). Table 9.3 provides cost infor-
mation for currently approved noninsulintherapies, while Table 9.4 provides these
data for insulin. Of note, prices listed are
average wholesale prices (AWP) (195)and National Average Drug AcquisitionCosts (NADAC) (196); these estimates al-low for a comparison of drug prices butdo not represent the actual costs to peo-
ple with diabetes because they do not ac-
count for various discounts, rebates, andother price adjustments often involved inprescription sales that affect the actualcost incurred by the individual. Medica-
tion costs can be a major source of stress
for people with diabetes and contributeto worse medication-taking behavior (197);cost-reducing strategies may improvemedication-taking behavior in some cases(198).
Although caps on out-of-pocket costs
for insulin have been implemented for
individuals with Medicare and for indi-viduals on some commercial healthplans, and three major insulin manufac-turers have capped costs at $35 permonth per insulin (199 –202) (see Sec-
tion 1, “Improving Care and Promoting
Health in Populations ”), individuals with
high-deductible health plans and thosewithout insurance coverage can incur veryhigh out-of-pocket expenses for glucose-lowering therapies. Moreover, no such caps
exist for diabetes durable medical equip-
ment (i.e., equipment for glucose monitor-ing and insulin administration) or forS196 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

noninsulin medications. It is therefore es-
sential to screen all people with diabetesforﬁnancial concerns and cost-related
barriers to care and to engage membersof the health care team, including pharma-cists, certi ﬁed diabetes care and education
specialists, social workers, communityhealth workers, community paramedics,and others, to identify cost-saving op-portunities for medications, diabetesdurable medical equipment, and gluca-
gon (203).
SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES AND
POPULATIONS
Recommendations
9.31a Use of compounded products
that are not approved by the FDA is
not recommended due to uncertainty
about their content and resulting con-cerns about safety, quality, and effec-tiveness. E
9.31b If a glucose-lowering medica-
tion is unavailable (e.g., in short-age), it is recommended to switchto a different FDA-approved medi-cation with similar ef ﬁcacy, as clini-
cally appropriate. E
9.31c Upon resolution of the unavail-
ability (e.g., shortage), reassess the
appropriateness of resuming the orig-inal FDA-approved medication. E
9.32a Individuals with diabetes of
childbearing potential should be coun-seled on contraception options Aand
the impact of some glucose-loweringmedications on contraception ef ﬁcacy. C
9.32b A person-centered shared
decision-making approach to precon-ception planning is essential for all
individuals with diabetes and of child-
bearing potential. APreconception
planning should address attainmentof glycemic goals, At h et i m ef r a m e
for discontinuing noninsulin glucose-lowering medications, Eand optimal
glycemic management in preparationfor pregnancy. A
9.33 Educate individuals with diabetes
who are at risk for developing diabeticketoacidosis and/or follow a ketogenic
eating pattern and who are treated
with SGLT inhibitors on the risks andsigns of ketoacidosis and methodsof risk mitigation management, andprovide them with appropriate toolsfor accurate ketone measurement (i.e.,serum b-hydroxybutyrate). ETherapeutic Strategies With
Medication Unavailability
Health care professionals and people with
diabetes struggle when medication sup-
plies are insuf ﬁcient to meet the demand.
Recent examples of such circumstancesinclude recalls involving a number of met-formin products and the marked increasein demand for agents from the GLP-1 RA
and dual GIP and GLP-1 RA classes. The
latter circumstance led to such a low levelof availability that products were deter-m i n e db yt h eF D At ob ei ns h o r t a g e( 2 0 4 ) .To assist with supply of medications dur-
ing the time they are in shortage (as sig-
naled by their inclusion on the FDA DrugShortages Database), compounding phar-macies and outsourcing compounding fa-cilities are allowed to make copies, or
products that are essentially duplicates
of the marketed FDA-approved product(205). A signi ﬁcant number of concerning
reports regarding safety and ef ﬁcacy of
compounded incretin products have
emerged, however, including using saltforms of the FDA-approved product ’sa c -
tive ingredient that are not proven safe oreffective for use in humans, incorporation
of additional ingredients not clinically
t e s t e dw h e nm i x e dw i t hi n c r e t i np r o d u c t s(e.g., vitamin B12 and vitamin B6), productsprovided in nonstandard concentrationsand doses and/or multidose vials and pre-
ﬁlled syringes not accompanied by educa-
tion or labeling to mitigate administrationerrors, and the emergence of counterfeitproducts that pose signi ﬁcant risk to indi-
viduals taking these products (206 –209).
Due to safety, quality, and effectiveness
concerns, use of non –FDA-approved com-
pounded products is not recommended(210). Instead, consider switching to a
different FDA-approved medication as
clinically appropriate (211). Once thedesired FDA-approved product becomesavailable, individuals should be reas-sessed to determine the appropriate-
ness of resuming the product based on
their current care needs, preferences,and priorities.
Care Considerations for Individuals
of Childbearing Potential
The impact of glycemia during pregnancy
is well understood; however, evidence forthe safe use of noninsulin glucose-lower-ing medications is limited (see Section 15,
“Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy ”).
Studies on the ef ﬁcacy and safety of
glucose-lowering medications excludeindividuals who are pregnant and require
individuals of childbearing potential to use
one or two forms of contraception. It isrecommended that individuals of child-
bearing potential use a form of contracep-
tion when also taking glucose-loweringmedications with unknown risks, limitedevidence on safety, or known risks during
pregnancy, regardless of the individual ’si n -
tention to become pregnant, as manypregnancies are unplanned. The options
for contraception should be discussed
with all individuals of childbearing poten-tial with diabetes and should include in-formation regarding the potential impact
of glucose-lowering medications on the
effectiveness of contraception. Medica-tions that impact gastrointestinal empty-
ing time (e.g., GLP-1 RAs or dual GIP and
GLP-1 RA) may affect the absorption oforally administered medications, includ-ing oral contraception. The impact on
gastric emptying with GLP-1 RAs and the
dual GIP and GLP-1 RA is highest at initia-tion and with dosage increases and then
diminishes with continued administration
(212). Tirzepatide, the dual GIP and GLP-1RA, was shown to impact the levels oforal contraception during the time of its
highest impact on gastric emptying; the
GLP-1 RAs may impact the levels of oralcontraception as well but to a lesser ex-
tent than tirzepatide (213,214). Thus, in-
dividuals starting or increasing doses oftirzepatide who also take oral contracep-tion should use a second form of contra-
ception until the maintenance dose of
tirzepatide is achieved and used for atleast 4 weeks (215).
Preconception counseling should be
part of the routine care of individuals with
diabetes who have childbearing potential.
Counseling should include the known ben-eﬁts and risks of glucose-lowering medica-
tions as well as other medications (e.g.,
lipid-lowering and antihypertensive thera-pies) during pregnancy and recommenda-tions for when changes in medications
should occur prior to pregnancy (see Sec-
tion 15, “Management of Diabetes in
Pregnancy, ”for more information on pre-
conception counseling and glucose-lowering
treatment during pregnancy).
Therapeutic Strategies for
Individuals Receiving Cancer
Treatment
Hyperglycemia due to chemotherapy may
either be transient (improving upon treat-ment cessation) or represent permanentdiabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S197Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

diabetes. Immune checkpoint inhibitors
(ICIs) (agents that block programmed cell
death protein 1 [PD-1] and programmedcell death protein ligand 1 [PD-L1]) suppressphysiologic blocks on immune responses,
which can result in autoimmune toxicities,
including autoimmune diabetes (incidenceapproximately #1%). ICI-diabetes is an in-
sulin-de ﬁcient phenotype that presents as
acute severe hyperglycemia or DKA and
appears to occur more abruptly thantype 1 diabetes (216 –218).Alpelisib, a phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase
(PI3K) inhibitor, frequently results in hy-
perglycemia by inhibiting PI3K a,w h i c h
systemically blocks the intracellular actionof insulin, resulting in a transient state
of insulin resistance and hyperglycemia
(219). Hyperglycemia occurs early duringtherapy (median time of onset of about2 weeks from initiation of alpelisib) with
an incidence of /C2460% overall and typi-
cally resolves upon treatment cessation(220–222). Metformin is the ﬁrst-line oralagent to treat alpelsib-induced hyperglyce-
mia, and prophylactic initiation of metfor-
min has been recommended for peoplewith prediabetes receiving alpelsib (223).SGLT2 inhibitors and pioglitazone are ap-
propriate second- or third-line agents, de-
pending on side effect and clinical pro ﬁles,
and may be used in combination with orwithout metformin. Insulin and sulfonylur-
eas should be considered last-line agents,
as insulin can reactivate the PI3K pathway,negating the effects of alpelisib (223,224).Table 9.3 —Median monthly (30-day) AWP and NADAC of maximum approved daily dose of noninsulin glucose-lowering
agents in the U.S.
Class CompoundDosage strength/
product (if applicable)Maximum approved
daily dose †Median AWP
(min, max)*Median NADAC
(min, max)*
Biguanides /C15Metformin 500 mg (ER) 2,000 mg $89 ($5, $6,719) $3 ($3, $79)
850 mg (IR) 2,550 mg $108 ($4, $189) $2
1,000 mg (IR) 2,000 mg $87 ($3, $146) $1
1,000 mg (ER) 2,000 mg $1,884 ($242, $7,214) $26 ($21, $31)
500 mg (Sol) 2,000 mg $1,144 ($810, $1478) $427
Sulfonylureas (2nd generation) /C15Glimepiride 4 mg 8 mg $73 ($71, $198) $2
/C15Glipizide 10 mg (IR) 40 mg $72 ($67, $91) $5
10 mg (XL/ER) 20 mg $48 ($46, $48) $8
/C15Glyburide 6 mg (micronized) 12 mg $54 ($48, $71) $13
5 mg 20 mg $82 ($63, $432) $7
Thiazolidinedione /C15Pioglitazone 45 mg 45 mg $348 ($7, $349) $3
a-Glucosidase inhibitors /C15Acarbose 100 mg 300 mg $106 ($104, $378) $20
/C15Miglitol 100 mg 300 mg $294 ($241, $346) $320
Meglitinides /C15Nateglinide 120 mg 360 mg $155 $23
/C15Repaglinide 2 mg 16 mg $878 ($799, $897) $26
DPP-4 inhibitors /C15Alogliptin 25 mg 25 mg $234 $145
/C15Linagliptin 5 mg 5 mg $630 $503
/C15Saxagliptin 5 mg 5 mg $524 ($523, $524) $165
/C15Sitagliptin 100 mg 100 mg $588 $550
SGLT2 inhibitors /C15Bexagli ﬂozin 20 mg 20 mg $47 NA
/C15Canagli ﬂozin 300 mg 300 mg $718 $574
/C15Dapagli ﬂozin 10 mg 10 mg $664 $352
/C15Empagli ﬂozin 25 mg 25 mg $733 $586
/C15Ertugli ﬂozin 15 mg 15 mg $428 $343
GLP-1 RAs /C15Dulaglutide 4.5 mg pen 4.5 mg ‡ $1,173 $941
/C15Exenatide 10 mg pen 20 mg $1,020 $818
/C15Exenatide (ER) 2 mg pen 2 mg ‡ $993 $1,101
/C15Liraglutide 18 mg/3 mL pen 1.8 mg $929 $1,077
/C15Semaglutide 2 mg pen 2 mg ‡ $1,162 $933
14 mg (tablet) 14 mg $1,162 $933
Dual GIP and GLP-1 RA /C15Tirzepatide 15 mg pen 15 mg ‡ $1,283 $1,030
Bile acid sequestrant /C15Colesevelam 625 mg tabs 3.75 g $692 ($674, $712) $47
3.75 g suspension 3.75 g $674 ($673, $675) $115
Dopamine-2 agonist /C15Bromocriptine 0.8 mg 4.8 mg $1,220 $981
Amylin mimetic /C15Pramlintide 120 mg pen 120 mg§ $2,952 NA
AWP, average wholesale price; DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; ER and XL, extended release; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide;
GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; IR, immediate release; max, maximum; min, minimum; NA, data not available; NADAC,National Average Drug Acquisition Cost; SGLT2, sodium –glucose cotransporter 2. AWP (195) and NADAC (196) prices are as of 1 July 2024.
*Calculated for 30-day supply (AWP or NADAC unit price × number of doses required to provide maximum approved daily dose × 30 days);
median AWP or NADAC listed alone when only one product and/or price. †Used to calculate median AWP and NADAC (min, max); generic
prices used, if available commercially. ‡Administered once weekly. §AWP and NADAC calculated based on 120 mg three times daily.S198 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

mTOR kinase inhibitors, including everi-
lomus, cause hyperglycemia by interfering
with insulin signaling, leading to impaired
insulin secretion and increased insulinresistance. Metformin is the ﬁrst-linetreatment of hyperglycemia secondary to
mTOR inhibitor treatment, with insulin
and other noninsulin treatments added in
a stepwise fashion dependent on glucoselevel (225).Therapeutic Strategies for Individuals
With Other Types of Diabetes
Individuals with pancreatogenic diabetes
may require early insulin initiation toachieve and maintain glycemic goals. InTable 9.4 —Median cost of insulin products in the U.S. calculated as AWP and NADAC per 1,000 units of speci ﬁed dosage
form or product
Insulins Compounds Dosage form/productMedian AWP
(min, max)*Median NADAC
(min, max)*
Rapid-acting /C15Aspart U-100 vial $87 † $70†
U-100 cartridge $107 † $86†
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $112 † $90†
/C15Aspart ( “faster acting product ”) U-100 vial $347 $278
U-100 cartridge $430 $344U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $447 $357
/C15Glulisine U-100 vial $102 $82
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $132 $105
/C15Inhaled insulin Inhalation cartridges $1,503 $1,298
/C15Lispro U-100 vial $30 † $24†
U-100 cartridge $123 $98
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $127 † $102 †
U-200 pre ﬁlled pen $424 $339
/C15Lispro-aabc U-100 vial $330 $263
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $424 $339
U-200 pre ﬁlled pen $424 $339
/C15Lispro follow-on product U-100 vial $118 $94
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $151 $121
Short-acting /C15Human regular U-100 vial $58 ($54, $58) ‡ $46 ($43, $58) ‡
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $73 ($54, $178) $58
Intermediate-acting /C15Human NPH U-100 vial $58 ($54, $58) ‡ $45 ($43, $46) ‡
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $93 ($73, $113) $74 ($58, $91)
Concentrated human
regular insulin/C15U-500 human regular insulin U-500 vial $178 $142
U-500 pre ﬁlled pen $230 $184
Long-acting /C15Degludec U-100 vial $142 † $114
†
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $142 † $114 †
U-200 pre ﬁlled pen $85 † $114 †
/C15Glargine U-100 vial
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen$77
$77$109 †
$109 †
U-300 pre ﬁlled pen $152 † $122 †
/C15Glargine biosimilar/follow-on
productsU-100 vial $118 ($76, †$323) $61 †
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $118 ($74, †$323) $59 ($59, †$209)
Premixed insulin products /C15Aspart 70/30 U-100 vial $87 †‡ $69†‡
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $112 †‡ $90†‡
/C15Lispro 50/50 U-100 vial $102 NA
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $127 $102
/C15Lispro 75/25 U-100 vial $102 $82
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $127 † $102 †
/C15NPH/regular 70/30 U-100 vial $58 ($54, $58) $45 ($43, $46)
U-100 pre ﬁlled pen $73 ($73, $113) ‡ $74 ($58, $90) ‡
Premixed insulin/GLP-1
RA products/C15Degludec/liraglutide 100/3.6 mg pre ﬁlled
pen$1,037 $791
/C15Glargine/lixisenatide 100/33 mg pre ﬁlled
pen$713 $570
AWP, average wholesale price; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; NA, data not available; NADAC, National Average Drug Ac-
quisition Cost. AWP (195) and NADAC (196) prices as of 1 July 2024. *AWP or NADAC calculated as in Table 9.3 .†Unbranded product prices
used when available. ‡AWP and NADAC data presented do not include human insulins (approximately $25/vial or $43/box of 5 pens) or se-
lect analog insulins (approximately $73/vial or $86/box of 5 pens) available at Walmart; median listed alone when only one product and/orprice.diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S199Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

individuals with a history of pancreatitis,
use of incretin medications (i.e., GLP-1RAs, GIP and GLP-1 RA, and DPP-4 inhibi-tors) should be avoided (see Section 2,“Diagnosis and Classi ﬁcation of Diabetes ”).
Individuals with cystic ﬁbrosis –related di-
abetes should be treated with insulintherapy; insulin pump therapy, includingautomated insulin delivery systems, should
be considered when appropriate (226).
There are limited data to inform the op-
timal pharmacologic management of post-transplant diabetes (227) (see Section 2,“Diagnosis and Classi ﬁcation of Diabetes ”).
While immediately posttransplant many in-
dividuals require insulin therapy, noninsulintherapies can be used for long-term man-agement. Studies of metformin, DPP-4 in-
hibitors, SGLT2 inhibitors, GLP-1 RAs, and
pioglitazone in individuals who have un-dergone kidney, heart, or liver transplan-tation have demonstrated effectivenessand safety but are limited by small sam-
ple sizes, short follow-up, and risk of bias
d u et or e t r o s p e c t i v eo rs i n g l e - a r mp r o -spective designs (228). Metformin shouldbe used with caution; it should not be ini-
tiated if eGFR is <45 mL/min/1.73 m
2,i t
should be stopped with eGFR $30 mL/
min/1.73 m2, and it should not be used in
the setting of clinical instability due to
concerns for acute kidney injury and lactic
acidosis. Metformin use may be associ-ated with lower risks of cardiac allographvasculopathy after heart transplantation(229) and all-cause, malignancy-related,
and infection-related mortality after kid-
ney transplantation (230). GLP-1 RA ther-apy may be preferred for many individualsdue to the demonstrated bene ﬁto fG L P - 1
RAs on cardiovascular, kidney, weight, and
liver outcomes. Studies have not found ev-idence of drug interaction with immuno-suppression, including ﬁnding no changes
in dosing or toxicity (231 –233). SGLT2
inhibitors may be similarly preferred forindividuals with ASCVD, HF, and CKD andappear to be safe and effective in post-transplantation diabetes. However, there
is increased risk of genitourinary tract infec-
tion, which is a concern in individuals receiv-ing immunosuppression and in those whohave undergone kidney transplantation.
Individuals with maturity-onset diabe-
tes of the young due to HNF1A and
HNF4A mutations can be treated with
low-dose sulfonylurea therapy but mayultimately require insulin therapy (234)
(see Section 2, “Diagnosis and Classi ﬁcation
of Diabetes ”)(Table 2.7 ). For those withHNF1A mutations, addition of a DPP-4
inhibitor to the sulfonylurea may helpimprove glycemic variability and attain-ment of glycemic goals (235). Individu-als with neonatal diabetes due to KCNJ22
andABCC8 mutations can be treated with
high-dose sulfonylureas, while those withINS,GATA6 ,EIF2AK3 ,a n d FOXP3 muta-
tions require insulin therapy (234).
SGLT Inhibition and Risk of Ketosis
Individuals with type 1 diabetes (84,236)
and insulin-de ﬁcient type 2 diabetes are at
increased risk for DKA with SGLT inhibitortherapy. SGLT inhibitor –associated DKA
occurs in approximately 4% of people
with type 1 diabetes; the risk can be 5 –17
times higher than that in people with T1Dnot treated with SGLT inhibitors (237). Itis important to note that SGLT2 inhibitors
are not approved for use in people with
type 1 diabetes. In contrast, DKA is un-common in people with type 2 diabetest r e a t e dw i t hS G L Ti n h i b i t o r s ,w i t ha ne s t i -
mated incidence of 0.6 –4.9 events per
1,000 person-years (238). Risk factors forDKA in individuals with either type 1 ortype 2 diabetes treated with SGLT inhibi-tors include very-low-carbohydrate diets,
prolonged fasting, dehydration, excessive
alcohol intake, and other common precip-itating factors (84,236). Up to a third ofpeople treated with SGLT2 inhibitors who
developed DKA present with glucose levels
<200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) (239), and in
one study 71% presented with glucose lev-els#250 mg/dL (13.9 mmol/L) (240);
therefore, it is important to educate at-
risk individuals about the signs and symp-toms of DKA and DKA mitigation andmanagement and to prescribe accurate
tools for ketone measurement. Individuals
who have experienced DKA should not betreated with SGLT inhibition. Additionalguidance on DKA risk mitigation is avail-able in Section 6, “Glycemic Goals and
Hypoglycemia. ”
References
1. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial
(DCCT)/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventionsand Complications (EDIC) Study Research Group.Mortality in type 1 diabetes in the DCCT/EDICversus the general population. Diabetes Care2016;39:1378 –1383
2 . L a c h i nJ M ,B e b uI ,N a t h a nD M ,D C C T / E D I C
Research Group. The bene ﬁcial effects of earlier
versus later implementation of intensive therapyin type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2021;44:2225 –
2230
3. Lachin JM, Nathan DM, DCCT/EDIC Research
Group. Understanding metabolic memory: theprolonged in ﬂuence of glycemia during the
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT)
on future risks of complications during the studyof the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventionsand Complications (EDIC). Diabetes Care 2021;44:
2216 –2224
4. Holt RIG, DeVries JH, Hess-Fischl A, et al. The
management of type 1 diabetes in adults. Aconsensus report by the American DiabetesAssociation (ADA) and the European Associationfor the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care
2021;44:2589 –2625
5. Tricco AC, Ashoor HM, Antony J, et al. Safety,
effectiveness, and cost effectiveness of longacting versus intermediate acting insulin forpatients with type 1 diabetes: systematic review
and network meta-analysis. BMJ 2014;349:g5459
6. Bartley PC, Bogoev M, Larsen J, Philotheou A.
Long-term ef ﬁcacy and safety of insulin detemir
compared to neutral protamine Hagedorn insulinin patients with type 1 diabetes using a treat-to-
target basal-bolus regimen with insulin aspart at
meals: a 2-year, randomized, controlled trial.Diabet Med 2008;25:442 –449
7. Little S, Shaw J, Home P . Hypoglycemia rates
with basal insulin analogs. Diabetes Technol Ther
2011;13(Suppl 1):S53 –S64
8. Aronson R, Biester T, Leohr J, et al. Ultra rapid
lispro showed greater reduction in postprandialglucose versus Humalog in children, adolescentsand adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Diabetes
Obes Metab 2023;25:1964 –1972
9. Heise T, Pieber TR, Danne T, Erichsen L, Haahr
H. A pooled analysis of clinical pharmacologytrials investigating the pharmacokinetic andpharmacodynamic characteristics of fast-actinginsulin aspart in adults with type 1 diabetes. Clin
Pharmacokinet 2017;56:551 –559
10. Bode BW, McGill JB, Lorber DL, Gross JL,
Chang PC, Bregman DB; Af ﬁnity 1 Study Group.
Inhaled technosphere insulin compared withinjected prandial insulin in type 1 diabetes: a
randomized 24-week trial. Diabetes Care 2015;
38:2266 –2273
11. Russell-Jones D, Bode BW, De Block C, et al.
Fast-acting insulin aspart improves glycemic controlin basal-bolus treatment for type 1 diabetes: results
of a 26-week multicenter, active-controlled, treat-
to-target, randomized, parallel-group trial (onset 1).Diabetes Care 2017;40:943 –950
12. Klaff L, Cao D, Dellva MA, et al. Ultra rapid
lispro improves postprandial glucose control
compared with lispro in patients with type 1
diabetes: results from the 26-week PRONTO-T1Dstudy. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:1799 –1807
13. Lane W, Bailey TS, Gerety G, et al.; SWITCH
1. Effect of insulin degludec vs insulin glargine
U100 on hypoglycemia in patients with type 1
diabetes: the SWITCH 1 randomized clinical trial.JAMA 2017;318:33 –44
14. Home PD, Bergenstal RM, Bolli GB, et al.
New insulin glargine 300 units/mL versus glargine100 units/mL in people with type 1 diabetes: a
randomized, phase 3a, open-label clinical trial
(EDITION 4). Diabetes Care 2015;38:2217 –2225
1 5 .Y e hH - C ,B r o w nT T ,M a r u t h u rN ,e ta l .
Comparative effectiveness and safety of methodsof insulin delivery and glucose monitoring for
diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-
analysis. Ann Intern Med 2012;157:336 –347
16. Speight J, Choudhary P, Wilmot EG, et al.
Impact of glycaemic technologies on quality ofS200 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

life and related outcomes in adults with type 1
diabetes: a narrative review. Diabet Med 2023;
40:e14944
17. Barnard KD, Skinner TC. Cross-sectional
study into quality of life issues surroundinginsulin pump use in type 1 diabetes. PracticalDiabetes International 2008;25:194 –200
18. Mulinacci G, Alonso GT, Snell-Bergeon JK,
Shah VN. Glycemic outcomes with early initiation
of continuous glucose monitoring system inrecently diagnosed patients with type 1 diabetes.Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21:6 –10
19. Elbalshy M, Haszard J, Smith H, et al. Effect
of divergent continuous glucose monitoring
technologies on glycaemic control in type 1
diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. DiabetMed 2022;39:e14854
20. Champakanath A, Akturk HK, Alonso GT,
Snell-Bergeon JK, Shah VN. Continuous glucose
monitoring initiation within ﬁrst year of type 1
diabetes diagnosis is associated with improvedglycemic outcomes: 7-year follow-up study. DiabetesCare 2022;45:750 –753
21. Weinstock RS, Xing D, Maahs DM, et al.; T1D
Exchange Clinic Network. Severe hypoglycemia
and diabetic ketoacidosis in adults with type 1
diabetes: results from the T1D Exchange clinicregistry. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2013;98:3411 –
3419
22. Tamborlane WV, Beck RW, Bode BW, et al.;
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Study Group. Continuous
glucose monitoring and intensive treatment of
type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;359:1464 –1476
23. Polonsky WH, Hessler D, Ruedy KJ, Beck RW;
DIAMOND Study Group. The impact of continuousglucose monitoring on markers of quality of life in
adults with type 1 diabetes: further ﬁndings from
the DIAMOND randomized clinical trial. DiabetesCare 2017;40:736 –741
24. Bergenstal RM, Klonoff DC, Garg SK, et al.;
ASPIRE In-Home Study Group. Threshold-basedinsulin-pump interruption for reduction of
hypoglycemia. N Engl J Med 2013;369:224 –232
25. Forlenza GP, Li Z, Buckingham BA, et al.
Predictive low-glucose suspend reduces hypogly-cemia in adults, adolescents, and children withtype 1 diabetes in an at-home randomizedcrossover study: results of the PROLOG trial.
Diabetes Care 2018;41:2155 –2161
26. Phillip M, Nimri R, Bergenstal RM, et al.
Consensus recommendations for the use ofautomated insulin delivery technologies in clinicalpractice. Endocr Rev 2023;44:254 –280
27. Peacock S, Frizelle I, Hussain S. A systematic
review of commercial hybrid closed-loop automated
insulin delivery systems. Diabetes Ther 2023;14:839–855
28. Choudhary P , Kolassa R, Keuthage W, et al.;
ADAPT Study Group. Advanced hybrid closedloop therapy versus conventional treatment in
adults with type 1 diabetes (ADAPT): a randomised
controlled study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2022;10:720 –731
29. Arunachalum S, Velado K, Vigersky RA,
Cordero TL. Glycemic outcomes during real-worldhybrid closed-loop system use by individuals with
type 1 diabetes in the United States. J Diabetes
Sci Technol 2023;17:951 –958
30. Garg SK, Grunberger G, Weinstock R, et al.;
Adult and Pediatric MiniMed HCL Outcomes6-Month RCT: HCL Versus CSII Control Study
Group. Improved glycemia with hybrid closed-loop
versus continuous subcutaneous insulin infusiontherapy: results from a randomized controlled trial.Diabetes Technol Ther 2023;25:1 –12
31. Russell SJ, Beck RW, Damiano ER, et al.;
Bionic Pancreas Research Group. Multicenter,
randomized trial of a bionic pancreas in type 1
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2022;387:1161 –1172
32. Burnside MJ, Lewis DM, Crocket HR, et al.
Open-source automated insulin delivery in type 1diabetes. N Engl J Med 2022;387:869 –881
33. Burnside MJ, Lewis DM, Crocket HR, et al.
Extended use of an open-source automated
insulin delivery system in children and adults
with type 1 diabetes: the 24-week continuationphase following the CREATE randomized controlledtrial. Diabetes Technol Ther 2023;25:250 –259
3 4 . B r o w nS A ,K o v a t c h e vB P ,R a g h i n a r uD ,e ta l . ;
iDCL Trial Research Group. Six-month randomized,
multicenter trial of closed-loop control in type 1diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:1707 –1717
35. Collyns OJ, Meier RA, Betts ZL, et al.
Improved glycemic outcomes with MedtronicMiniMed advanced hybrid closed-loop delivery:results from a randomized crossover trial com-
paring automated insulin delivery with predictive
low glucose suspend in people with type 1diabetes. Diabetes Care 2021;44:969 –975
36. Brown SA, Beck RW, Raghinaru D, et al.; iDCL
Trial Research Group. Glycemic outcomes of use ofCLC versus PLGS in type 1 diabetes: a randomized
controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2020;43:1822 –1828
37. Breton MD, Kovatchev BP . One year real-
world use of the Control-IQ advanced hybridclosed-loop technology. Diabetes Technol Ther2021;23:601 –608
38. Lepore G, Rossini A, Bellante R, et al.
Switching to the MiniMed 780G system achieves
clinical targets for CGM in adults with type 1diabetes regardless of previous insulin strategy andbaseline glucose control. Acta Diabetol 2022;59:1309 –1315
39. Matejko B, Juza A, Kie /C19c-Wilk B, et al.
Transitioning of people with type 1 diabetes from
multiple daily injections and self-monitoringof blood glucose directly to MiniMed 780Gadvanced hybrid closed-loop system: a two-center,randomized, controlled study. Diabetes Care 2022;45:2628 –2635
40. Isganaitis E, Raghinaru D, Ambler-Osborn L,
et al.; iDCL Trial Research Group. Closed-loopinsulin therapy improves glycemic control inadolescents and young adults: outcomes fromthe international diabetes closed-loop trial. Diabetes
Technol Ther 2021;23:342 –349
41. Forlenza GP, Carlson AL, Galindo RJ, et al.
Real-world evidence supporting Tandem Control-IQ hybrid closed-loop success in the Medicare andMedicaid type 1 and type 2 diabetes populations.Diabetes Technol Ther 2022;24:814 –823
42. Pease A, Zomer E, Liew D, et al. Cost-
effectiveness analysis of a hybrid closed-loop
system versus multiple daily injections andcapillary glucose testing for adults with type 1diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2020;22:812 –821
43. Lal RA, Maahs DM. Optimizing basal insulin
dosing. J Pediatr 2019;215:7 –8
44. Mitsui Y , Kuroda A, Ishizu M, et al. Basal
insulin requirement in patients with type 1
diabetes depends on the age and body massindex. J Diabetes Investig 2022;13:292 –29845. Castellano E, Attanasio R, Giagulli VA, et al.;
Associazione Medici Endocrinologi (AME). The
basal to total insulin ratio in outpatients withdiabetes on basal-bolus regimen. J Diabetes MetabDisord 2018;17:393 –399
46. Matejko B, Kuku łka A, Kie /C19c-Wilk B, Sta ˛p/C19or A,
Klupa T, Malecki MT. Basal insulin dose in adultswith type 1 diabetes mellitus on insulin pumps inreal-life clinical practice: a single-center experience.
Adv Med 2018;2018:1473160
47. Cengiz E, Danne T, Ahmad T, et al. ISPAD
Clinical Practice Consensus Guidelines 2022:insulin treatment in children and adolescentswith diabetes. Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23:1277 –1296
48. King AB. Mean basal insulin dose is 0.2 U/kg/d
at near normal glycaemia for type 1 or 2 diabetes
on continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion oronce-nightly basal insulin. Diabetes Obes Metab
2021;23:866 –869
49. Peters AL, Lafell L. The American Diabetes
Association/JDRF Type 1 Diabetes Sourcebook.American Diabetes Association, 2013
50. Srinivasan S, Craig ME, Beeney L, et al. An
ambulatory stabilisation program for children
with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes. Med J Aust
2004;180:277 –280
51. Lemieux L, Crawford S, Pacaud D. Starting
subcutaneous insulin doses in a paediatric
population with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes.
Paediatr Child Health 2010;15:357 –362
52. Chiang JL, Kirkman MS, Laffel LMB, Peters
AL; Type 1 Diabetes Sourcebook Authors. Type 1diabetes through the life span: a position statement
of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care
2014;37:2034 –2054
53. S
€amann A, M €uhlhauser I, Bender R, Hunger-
Dathe W, Kloos C, M €uller UA. Flexible intensive
insulin therapy in adults with type 1 diabetes and
high risk for severe hypoglycemia and diabeticketoacidosis. Diabetes Care 2006;29:2196 –2199
54. Builes-Monta ~no CE, Ortiz-Cano NA, Ramirez-
Rinc/C19on A, Rojas-Henao NA. Ef ﬁcacy and safety of
carbohydrate counting versus other forms of
dietary advice in patients with type 1 diabetesmellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysisof randomised clinical trials. J Hum Nutr Diet
2022;35:1030 –1042
55. Al Balwi R, Al Madani W, Al Ghamdi A.
Efﬁcacy of insulin dosing algorithms for high-fat
high-protein mixed meals to control postprandial
glycemic excursions in people living with type 1
diabetes: A systematic review and meta-analysis.Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23:1635 –1646
56. DAFNE Study Group. Training in ﬂexible,
intensive insulin management to enable dietary
freedom in people with type 1 diabetes: Dose
Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE) randomisedcontrolled trial. BMJ 2002;325:746
57. Hopkins D, Lawrence I, Mansell P, et al.
Improved biomedical and psychological outcomes
1 year after structured education in ﬂexible insulin
therapy for people with type 1 diabetes: the U.K.DAFNE experience. Diabetes Care 2012;35:1638 –
1642
58. Speight J, Amiel SA, Bradley C, et al. Long-
term biomedical and psychosocial outcomesfollowing DAFNE (Dose Adjustment For NormalEating) structured education to promote intensive
insulin therapy in adults with sub-optimally
controlled type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Res ClinPract 2010;89:22 –29diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S201Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

59. Bruttomesso D, Boscari F, Lepore G, et al. A
“slide rule ”to adjust insulin dose using trend
arrows in adults with type 1 diabetes: test insilico and in real life. Diabetes Ther 2021;12:1313 –1324
60. Aleppo G, Laffel LM, Ahmann AJ, et al. A
practical approach to using trend arrows on the
Dexcom G5 CGM system for the management ofadults with diabetes. J Endocr Soc 2017;1:1445 –
1460
61. Buckingham B, Xing D, Weinzimer S, et al.;
Diabetes Research In Children Network (DirecNet)
Study Group. Use of the DirecNet AppliedTreatment Algorithm (DATA) for diabetes manage-ment with a real-time continuous glucose monitor(the FreeStyle Navigator). Pediatr Diabetes 2008;
9:142 –147
62. Parise M, Di Molfetta S, Graziano RT, et al. A
head-to-head comparison of two algorithms foradjusting mealtime insulin doses based on CGMtrend arrows in adult patients with type 1
diabetes: results from an exploratory study. Int J
Environ Res Public Health 2023;20:3945
63. Petrovski G, Campbell J, Pasha M, et al.
Simpli ﬁed meal announcement versus precise
carbohydrate counting in adolescents with type 1
diabetes using the MiniMed 780G advanced
hybrid closed loop system: a randomized controlledtrial comparing glucose control. Diabetes Care2023;46:544 –550
64. Turrin KB, Trujillo JM. Effects of diabetes
numeracy on glycemic control and diabetes self-
management behaviors in patients on insulinpump therapy. Diabetes Ther 2019;10:1337 –
1346
6 5 . W h i t eR O ,W o l f fK ,C a v a n a u g hK L ,R o t h m a n
R. Addressing health literacy and numeracy to
improve diabetes education and care. Diabetes
Spectr 2010;23:238 –243
66. Frid AH, Kreugel G, Grassi G, et al. New
insulin delivery recommendations. Mayo ClinProc 2016;91:1231 –1255
67. Bergenstal RM, Strock ES, Peremislov D,
Gibney MA, Parvu V, Hirsch LJ. Safety and ef ﬁcacy
of insulin therapy delivered via a 4mm pen needlein obese patients with diabetes. Mayo Clin Proc2015;90:329 –338
68. Qiao Y-C, Ling W, Pan Y-H, et al. Ef ﬁcacy and
safety of pramlintide injection adjunct to insulin
therapy in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus:a systematic review and meta-analysis. Oncotarget2017;8:66504 –66515
69. Meng H, Zhang A, Liang Y, Hao J, Zhang X, Lu
J. Effect of metformin on glycaemic control in
patients with type 1 diabetes: a meta-analysis ofrandomized controlled trials. Diabetes Metab ResRev 2018;34:e2983
70. Petrie JR, Chaturvedi N, Ford I, et al.;
REMOVAL Study Group. Cardiovascular and
metabolic effects of metformin in patients withtype 1 diabetes (REMOVAL): a double-blind,randomised, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet DiabetesEndocrinol 2017;5:597 –609
71. Mathieu C, Zinman B, Hemmingsson JU,
et al.; ADJUNCT ONE Investigators. Ef ﬁcacy and
safety of liraglutide added to insulin treatment intype 1 diabetes: the ADJUNCT ONE treat-to-target randomized trial. Diabetes Care 2016;39:
1702 –1710
72. Ahr /C19en B, Hirsch IB, Pieber TR, et al.;
ADJUNCT TWO Investigators. Ef ﬁcacy and safety
of liraglutide added to capped insulin treatmentin subjects with type 1 diabetes: the ADJUNCT
TWO randomized trial. Diabetes Care 2016;39:
1693 –1701
73. von Herrath M, Bain SC, Bode B, et al.; Anti-
IL-21 –Liraglutide Study Group Investigators and
Contributors. Anti-interleukin-21 antibody and
liraglutide for the preservation of b-cell function
in adults with recent-onset type 1 diabetes: arandomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled,phase 2 trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2021;9:212–224
74. Garg SK, Kaur G, Haider Z, Rodriquez E,
Beatson C, Snell-Bergeon J. Ef ﬁcacy of semaglutide
in overweight and obese patients with type 1diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2024;26:184 –189
75. Garg SK, Akturk HK, Kaur G, Beatson C, Snell-
Bergeon J. Ef ﬁcacy and safety of tirzepatide in
overweight and obese adult patients with type 1
diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2024;26:367 –374
76. National Library of Medicine. National Center
for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov.Type 1 Diabetes Impacts of Semaglutide on
Cardiovascular Outcomes (T1-DISCO) (NCT05819138).
Accessed 23 August 2024. Available from https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05819138?tab=results
77. National Library of Medicine. National Center
for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov.
ADJUnct Semaglutide Treatment in Type 1
Diabetes (ADJUST-T1D) (NCT05537233). Accessed23 August 2024. Available from https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05537233
78. Rao L, Ren C, Luo S, Huang C, Li X. Sodium-
glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors as an add-on
therapy to insulin for type 1 diabetes mellitus:meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.Acta Diabetol 2021;58:869 –880
79. Li M, Liu Z, Yang X, et al. The effect of
sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors as an
adjunct to insulin in patients with type 1 diabetesassessed by continuous glucose monitoring: asystematic review and meta-analysis. J DiabetesComplications 2023;37:108632
80. Chen M-B, Xu R-J, Zheng Q-H, Zheng X-W ,
Wang H. Ef ﬁcacy and safety of sotagli ﬂozin
adjuvant therapy for type 1 diabetes mellitus: asystematic review and meta-analysis. Medicine(Baltimore) 2020;99:e20875
81. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA
Introductory Remarks: January 17, 2019:
Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs AdvisoryCommittee Meeting. 2019. Accessed 23 August2024. Available from https://wayback.archive-it.
org/7993/20190207212714/https://www.fda.gov/
downloads/AdvisoryCommittees/CommitteesMeetingMaterials/Drugs/EndocrinologicandMetabolicDrugsAdvisoryCommittee/UCM629782.pdf
82. Bhatt DL, Szarek M, Steg PG, et al.; SOLOIST-
WHF Trial Investigators. Sotagli ﬂozin in patients
with diabetes and recent worsening heart failure.N Engl J Med 2021;384:117 –128
83. Bhatt DL, Szarek M, Pitt B, et al.; SCORED
Investigators. Sotagli ﬂozin in patients with diabetes
and chronic kidney disease. N Engl J Med 2021;
384:129 –139
84. Danne T, Garg S, Peters AL, et al. Inter-
national consensus on risk management ofdiabetic ketoacidosis in patients with type 1
diabetes treated with sodium-glucose cotransporter
(SGLT) inhibitors. Diabetes Care 2019;42:1147 –1154
85. Lachin JM, McGee P, Palmer JP, DCCT/EDIC
Research Group. Impact of C-peptide preservationon metabolic and clinical outcomes in the Diabetes
Control and Complications Trial. Diabetes 2014;
63:739 –748
86. Dean PG, Kukla A, Stegall MD, Kudva YC.
Pancreas transplantation. BMJ 2017;357:j1321
87. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. Lantidra.
Accessed 15 September 2024. Available from
https://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/
lantidra
88. Geta ET, Terefa DR, Hailu WB, et al.
Effectiveness of shared decision-making forglycaemic control among type 2 diabetes mellitus
adult patients: a systematic review and meta-
analysis. PLoS One 2024;19:e0306296
89. Davies MJ, Aroda VR, Collins BS, et al.
Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes,2022. A consensus report by the American
Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European
Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD).Diabetes Care 2022;45:2753 –2786
90. Lingvay I, Sumithran P, Cohen RV, Le Roux
CW. Obesity management as a primary treatment
goal for type 2 diabetes: time to reframe the
conversation. Lancet 2022;399:394 –405
91. Wing RR, Lang W, Wadden TA, et al.; Look
AHEAD Research Group. Bene ﬁts of modest
weight loss in improving cardiovascular riskfactors in overweight and obese individuals with
type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1481 –1486
92. Adler AI, Coleman RL, Leal J, Whiteley WN,
Clarke P, Holman RR. Post-trial monitoring of a
randomised controlled trial of intensive glycaemiccontrol in type 2 diabetes extended from 10 years
to 24 years (UKPDS 91). Lancet 2024;404:145 –
155
93. Kunutsor SK, Balasubramanian VG, Zaccardi
F, et al. Glycaemic control and macrovascular andmicrovascular outcomes: a systematic review
and meta-analysis of trials investigating intensive
glucose-lowering strategies in people with type 2diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2024;26:2069 –
2081
94. Holman RR, Paul SK, Bethel MA, Matthews
DR, Neil HAW. 10-year follow-up of intensive
glucose control in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med2008;359:1577 –1589
95. Bahardoust M, Mousavi S, Yariali M, et al.
Effect of metformin (vs. placebo or sulfonylurea)
on all-cause and cardiovascular mortality and
incident cardiovascular events in patients withdiabetes: an umbrella review of systematicreviews with meta-analysis. J Diabetes MetabDisord 2024;23:27 –38
96. Maruthur NM, Tseng E, Hut ﬂess S, et al.
Diabetes medications as monotherapy or metformin-
based combination therapy for type 2 diabetes:a systematic review and meta-analysis. AnnIntern Med 2016;164:740 –751
97. Karagiannis T, Paschos P, Paletas K, Matthews
DR, Tsapas A. Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors for
treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in the clinicalsetting: systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ2012;344:e1369
98. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. FDA drug
safety communication: FDA revises warnings
regarding use of the diabetes medicine metforminin certain patients with reduced kidney function.Accessed 23 August 2024. Available from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/
fda-drug-safety-communication-fda-revises-
warnings-regarding-use-diabetes-medicine-metformin-certainS202 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

99. Salpeter SR, Greyber E, Pasternak GA,
Salpeter EE. Risk of fatal and nonfatal lactic
acidosis with metformin use in type 2 diabetesmellitus: systematic review and meta-analysis.Arch Intern Med 2003;163:2594 –2602
100. Salpeter SR, Greyber E, Pasternak GA,
Salpeter EE. Risk of fatal and nonfatal lactic
acidosis with metformin use in type 2 diabetes
mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010;2010:CD002967
101. Lipska KJ, Bailey CJ, Inzucchi SE. Use of
metformin in the setting of mild-to-moderaterenal insuf ﬁciency. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1431 –
1437
102. Out M, Kooy A, Lehert P , Schalkwijk CA,
Stehouwer CDA. Long-term treatment withmetformin in type 2 diabetes and methylmalonicacid: post hoc analysis of a randomized controlled4.3year trial. J Diabetes Complications 2018;32:
171–178
103. Aroda VR, Edelstein SL, Goldberg RB, et al.;
Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group.Long-term metformin use and vitamin B12deﬁciency in the Diabetes Prevention Program
Outcomes Study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2016;
101:1754 –1761
104. Fr /C19ıas JP , Davies MJ, Rosenstock J, et al.;
SURPASS-2 Investigators. Tirzepatide versus sema-glutide once weekly in patients with type 2diabetes. N Engl J Med 2021;385:503 –515
105. Sorli C, Harashima S-I, Tsoukas GM, et al.
Efﬁcacy and safety of once-weekly semaglutide
monotherapy versus placebo in patients with
type 2 diabetes (SUSTAIN 1): a double-blind,randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel-group,multinational, multicentre phase 3a trial. LancetDiabetes Endocrinol 2017;5:251 –260
106. Tsapas A, Avgerinos I, Karagiannis T, et al.
Comparative effectiveness of glucose-lowering
drugs for type 2 diabetes: a systematic reviewand network meta-analysis. Ann Intern Med2020;173:278 –286
107. Kahn SE, Haffner SM, Heise MA, et al.;
ADOPT Study Group. Glycemic durability of rosig-
litazone, metformin, or glyburide monotherapy.
N Engl J Med 2006;355:2427 –2443
108. Nathan DM, Lachin JM, Balasubramanyam
A, et al.; GRADE Study Research Group. Glycemiar e d u c t i o ni nt y p e2d i a b e t e s –glycemic outcomes.
N Engl J Med 2022;387:1063 –1074
109. Babu A, Mehta A, Guerrero P , et al. Safe
and simple emergency department dischargetherapy for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitusand severe hyperglycemia. Endocr Pract 2009;15:696 –704
110. Buse JB, Peters A, Russell-Jones D, et al. Is
insulin the most effective injectable antihypergly-
caemic therapy? Diabetes Obes Metab 2015;17:145–151
111. D ’Alessio D, H €aring H-U, Charbonnel B,
et al.; EAGLE Investigators. Comparison of insulinglargine and liraglutide added to oral agents in
patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes.
Diabetes Obes Metab 2015;17:170 –178
112. Cahn A, Cefalu WT. Clinical considerations
for use of initial combination therapy in type 2diabetes. Diabetes Care 2016;39(Suppl 2):S137 –
S145
113. Abdul-Ghani MA, Puckett C, Triplitt C, et al.
Initial combination therapy with metformin,
pioglitazone and exenatide is more effective thansequential add-on therapy in subjects with new-onset diabetes. Results from the Ef ﬁcacy and
Durability of Initial Combination Therapy for
Type 2 Diabetes (EDICT): a randomized trial.Diabetes Obes Metab 2015;17:268 –275
114. Cai X, Gao X, Yang W, Han X, Ji L. Ef ﬁcacy
and safety of initial combination therapy in
treatment-naïve type 2 diabetes patients: asystematic review and meta-analysis. DiabetesTher 2018;9:1995 –2014
115. Aroda VR, Gonz /C19alez-Galvez G, Grøn R, et al.
Durability of insulin degludec plus liraglutide
versus insulin glargine U100 as initial injectabletherapy in type 2 diabetes (DUAL VIII): a multicentre,open-label, phase 3b, randomised controlled trial.
Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2019;7:596 –605
116. Khunti K, Davies MJ. Clinical inertia –time to
reappraise the terminology? Prim Care Diabetes2017;11:105 –106
117. Bennett WL, Maruthur NM, Singh S, et al.
Comparative effectiveness and safety of medications
for type 2 diabetes: an update including new drugsand 2-drug combinations. Ann Intern Med 2011;154:602 –613
118. Maloney A, Rosenstock J, Fonseca V. A
model-based meta-analysis of 24 antihyperglycemic
drugs for type 2 diabetes: comparison of treatmenteffects at therapeutic doses. Clin Pharmacol Ther
2019;105:1213 –1223
119. Lajthia E, Bucheit JD, Nadpara PA, et al.
Combination therapy with once-weekly glucagonlike peptide-1 receptor agonists and dipeptidylpeptidase-4 inhibitors in type 2 diabetes: a case
series. Pharm Pract (Granada) 2019;17:1588
120. Violante R, Oliveira JHA, Yoon K-H, et al. A
randomized non-inferiority study comparing theaddition of exenatide twice daily to sitagliptin orswitching from sitagliptin to exenatide twice daily
in patients with type 2 diabetes experiencing
inadequate glycaemic control on metformin andsitagliptin. Diabet Med 2012;29:e417 –e424
121. Nauck MA, Kahle M, Baranov O, Deacon CF,
Holst JJ. Addition of a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 in-
hibitor, sitagliptin, to ongoing therapy with theglucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist liraglutide:a randomized controlled trial in patients with type 2
diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2017;19:200 –207
122. Pratley R, Amod A, Hoff ST , et al.; PIONEER 4
Investigators. Oral semaglutide versus subcutaneousliraglutide and placebo in type 2 diabetes(PIONEER 4): a randomised, double-blind, phase 3a
trial. Lancet 2019;394:39 –50
123. Del Prato S, Kahn SE, Pavo I, et al.;
SURPASS-4 Investigators. Tirzepatide versus insulinglargine in type 2 diabetes and increased
cardiovascular risk (SURPASS-4): a randomised,
open-label, parallel-group, multicentre, phase 3trial. Lancet 2021;398:1811 –1824
124. Singh S, Wright EE, Kwan AYM, et al.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists compared
with basal insulins for the treatment of type 2
diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Obes Metab 2017;19:228 –238
125. Levin PA, Nguyen H, Wittbrodt ET, Kim SC.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists: a
systematic review of comparative effectivenessresearch. Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes 2017;10:123–139
126. Abd El Aziz MS, Kahle M, Meier JJ, Nauck
MA. A meta-analysis comparing clinical effects of
short- or long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonistsversus insulin treatment from head-to-headstudies in type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetes Obes
Metab 2017;19:216 –227
127. Giorgino F, Benroubi M, Sun J-H,
Zimmermann AG, Pechtner V. Ef ﬁcacy and safety
of once-weekly dulaglutide versus insulin glarginein patients with type 2 diabetes on metformin
and glimepiride (AWARD-2). Diabetes Care 2015;
38:2241 –2249
128. Aroda VR, Bain SC, Cariou B, et al. Ef ﬁcacy
and safety of once-weekly semaglutide versusonce-daily insulin glargine as add-on to metformin
(with or without sulfonylureas) in insulin-naive
patients with type 2 diabetes (SUSTAIN 4): arandomised, open-label, parallel-group, multicentre,multinational, phase 3a trial. Lancet DiabetesEndocrinol 2017;5:355 –366
129. Davies M, Heller S, Sreenan S, et al. Once-
weekly exenatide versus once- or twice-daily
insulin detemir: randomized, open-label, clinicaltrial of ef ﬁcacy and safety in patients with type 2
diabetes treated with metformin alone or in
combination with sulfonylureas. Diabetes Care
2013;36:1368 –1376
130. Diamant M, Van Gaal L, Stranks S, et al.
Once weekly exenatide compared with insulinglargine titrated to target in patients with type 2
diabetes (DURATION-3): an open-label randomised
trial. Lancet 2010;375:2234 –
2243
131. Dahl D, Onishi Y, Norwood P, et al. Effect of
subcutaneous tirzepatide vs placebo added totitrated insulin glargine on glycemic control in
patients with type 2 diabetes: the SURPASS-5
randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2022;327:534 –
545
132. McCoy RG, Lipska KJ, Van Houten HK, Shah
ND. Association of cumulative multimorbidity,glycemic control, and medication use with
hypoglycemia-related emergency department visits
and hospitalizations among adults with diabetes.JAMA Netw Open 2020;3:e1919099
133. Nathan DM, Lachin JM, Bebu I, et al.; GRADE
Study Research Group. Glycemia reduction in type 2
diabetes –microvascular and cardiovascular outcomes.
N Engl J Med 2022;387:1075 –1088
134. McCoy RG, Herrin J, Swarna KS, et al.
Effectiveness of glucose-lowering medications oncardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2
diabetes at moderate cardiovascular risk. Nat
Cardiovasc Res 2024;3:431 –440
135. Berg DD, Wiviott SD, Scirica BM, et al. Heart
failure risk strati ﬁcation and ef ﬁcacy of sodium-
glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors in patients
with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Circulation 2019;
140:1569 –1577
136. Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes
Diabetes Work Group. KDIGO 2022 clinical practiceguideline for diabetes management in chronic
kidney disease. Kidney Int 2022;102:S1 –S127
137. Kristensen SL, Rørth R, Jhund PS, et al.
Cardiovascular, mortality, and kidney outcomeswith GLP-1 receptor agonists in patients withtype 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of cardiovascular outcome trials. Lancet
Diabetes Endocrinol 2019;7:776 –785
138. Perkovic V, Tuttle KR, Rossing P, et al.;
FLOW Trial Committees and Investigators. Effectsof semaglutide on chronic kidney disease inpatients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2024;
391:109 –121
139. McGuire DK, Shih WJ, Cosentino F, et al.
Association of SGLT2 inhibitors with cardiovascularand kidney outcomes in patients with type 2diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S203Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

diabetes: a meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiol 2021;6:
148–158
140. Reyes-Farias CI, Reategui-Diaz M, Romani-
Romani F, Prokop L. The effect of sodium-glucosecotransporter 2 inhibitors in patients with chronickidney disease with or without type 2 diabetes
mellitus on cardiovascular and renal outcomes: a
systematic review and meta-analysis. PLoS One2023;18:e0295059
141. Herrington WG, Staplin N, Wanner C, et al.;
Empa-Kidney Collaborative Group. Empagli ﬂozin
in patients with chronic kidney disease. N Engl J
Med 2023;388:117 –127
142. Perkovic V, Jardine MJ, Neal B, et al.;
CREDENCE Trial Investigators. Canagli ﬂozin and renal
outcomes in type 2 diabetes and nephropathy. NEngl J Med 2019;380:2295 –2306
143. Dagogo-Jack S, Pratley RE, Cherney DZI,
et al. Glycemic ef ﬁcacy and safety of the SGLT2
inhibitor ertugli ﬂozin in patients with type 2
diabetes and stage 3 chronic kidney disease: ananalysis from the VERTIS CV randomized trial.
BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2021;9:e002484
144. Cherney DZI, Cooper ME, Tikkanen I, et al.
Pooled analysis of phase III trials indicatecontrasting in ﬂuences of renal function on blood
pressure, body weight, and HbA1c reductions
with empagli ﬂozin. Kidney Int 2018;93:231 –244
145. Wexler DJ, de Boer IH, Ghosh A, et al.;
GRADE Research Group. Comparative effects ofglucose-lowering medications on kidney outcomesin type 2 diabetes: the GRADE randomized clinical
trial. JAMA Intern Med 2023;183:705 –714
146. Belfort R, Harrison SA, Brown K, et al. A
placebo-controlled trial of pioglitazone in subjectswith nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. N Engl J Med2006;355:2297 –2307
147. Cusi K, Orsak B, Bril F, Xu et al. Liraglutide
or insulin glargine treatments improves hepatic
fat in obese patients with type 2 diabetes andnonalcoholic fatty liver disease in twenty-sixweeks: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2020;170:108487
148. Flint A, Andersen G, Hockings P, et al.
Randomised clinical trial: semaglutide versusplacebo reduced liver steatosis but not liverstiffness in subjects with non-alcoholic fatty liverdisease assessed by magnetic resonance imaging.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2021;54:1150 –1161
149. Bizino MB, Jazet IM, de Heer P, et al.
Placebo-controlled randomised trial with liraglutideon magnetic resonance endpoints in individualswith type 2 diabetes: a pre-speci ﬁed secondary
study on ectopic fat accumulation. Diabetologia
2020;63:65 –74
150. Newsome PN, Buchholtz K, Cusi K, et al.;
NN9931-4296 Investigators. A placebo-controlledtrial of subcutaneous semaglutide in nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis. N Engl J Med 2021;384:1113 –
1124
151. Loomba R, Hartman ML, Lawitz EJ, et al.;
SYNERGY-NASH Investigators. Tirzepatide for meta-bolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis with
liverﬁbrosis. N Engl J Med 2024;391:299 –310
152. Gastaldelli A, Cusi K, Fern /C19andez Land /C19oL ,
Bray R, Brouwers B, Rodr /C19ıguez /C19A. Effect of
tirzepatide versus insulin degludec on liver fatcontent and abdominal adipose tissue in peoplewith type 2 diabetes (SURPASS-3 MRI): a substudy
of the randomised, open-label, parallel-group,
phase 3 SURPASS-3 trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol2022;10:393 –406153. Armstrong MJ, Gaunt P, Aithal GP , et al.;
LEAN Trial Team. Liraglutide safety and ef ﬁcacy in
patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (LEAN):a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-
controlled phase 2 study. Lancet 2016;387:679
–
690
154. Sathyanarayana P, Jogi M, Muthupillai R,
Krishnamurthy R, Samson SL, Bajaj M. Effects of
combined exenatide and pioglitazone therapy onhepatic fat content in type 2 diabetes. Obesity
(Silver Spring) 2011;19:2310 –2315
155. Abdul-Ghani M, Migahid O, Megahed A,
DeFronzo RA, Al-Ozairi E, Jayyousi A. Combinationtherapy with pioglitazone/exenatide improves
beta-cell function and produces superior glycaemic
control compared with basal/bolus insulin inpoorly controlled type 2 diabetes: a 3-year follow-
up of the Qatar study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;
22:2287 –2294
156. Lavynenko O, Abdul-Ghani M, Alatrach M,
et al. Combination therapy with pioglitazone/
exenatide/metformin reduces the prevalence of
hepatic ﬁbrosis and steatosis: the ef ﬁcacy and
durability of initial combination therapy for type 2
diabetes (EDICT). Diabetes Obes Metab 2022;24:
899–907
157. Garvey WT, Frias JP , Jastreboff AM, et al.;
SURMOUNT-2 Investigators. Tirzepatide once
weekly for the treatment of obesity in peoplewith type 2 diabetes (SURMOUNT-2): a double-
blind, randomised, multicentre, placebo-controlled,
phase 3 trial. Lancet 2023;402:613 –626
158. Davies M, Færch L, Jeppesen OK, et al.;
STEP 2 Study Group. Semaglutide 2.4 mg once a
week in adults with overweight or obesity, and
type 2 diabetes (STEP 2): a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, phase
3 trial. Lancet 2021;397:971 –984
159. Bonora E, Frias JP , Tinahones FJ, et al. Effect
of dulaglutide 3.0 and 4.5 mg on weight in patientswith type 2 diabetes: exploratory analyses of
AWARD-11. Diabetes Obes Metab 2021;23:2242 –
2250
160. Davies MJ, Bergenstal R, Bode B, et al.;
NN8022-1922 Study Group. Ef ﬁcacy of liraglutide
for weight loss among patients with type 2diabetes: the SCALE diabetes randomized clinical
trial. JAMA 2015;314:687 –699
161. Ahmann AJ, Capehorn M, Charpentier G,
et al. Ef ﬁcacy and safety of once-weekly semaglutide
versus exenatide ER in subjects with type 2 diabetes
(SUSTAIN 3): a 56-week, open-label, randomized
clinical trial. Diabetes Care 2018;41:258 –266
162. Schauer PR, Bhatt DL, Kirwan JP , et al.;
STAMPEDE Investigators. Bariatric surgery versus
intensive medical therapy for diabetes –5-year
outcomes. N Engl J Med 2017;376:641 –651
163. Blonde L, Merilainen M, Karwe V, Raskin P,
TITRATE Study Group. Patient-directed titration
for achieving glycaemic goals using a once-dailybasal insulin analogue: an assessment of two
different fasting plasma glucose targets –the TITRATE
study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2009;11:623 –631
164. Porcellati F, Lucidi P, Cioli P, et al.
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of
insulin glargine given in the evening as compared
with in the morning in type 2 diabetes. DiabetesCare 2015;38:503 –512
165. Wang Z, Hedrington MS, Gogitidze Joy N,
et al. Dose-response effects of insulin glargine in
type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1555 –1560166. Semlitsch T, Engler J, Siebenhofer A, Jeitler
K, Berghold A, Horvath K. (Ultra-)long-acting
insulin analogues versus NPH insulin (humanisophane insulin) for adults with type 2 diabetesmellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2020;11:
Cd005613
167. Mannucci E, Caiulo C, Naletto L, Madama
G, Monami M. Ef ﬁcacy and safety of different
basal and prandial insulin analogues for the
treatment of type 2 diabetes: a network meta-
analysis of randomized controlled trials. Endocrine2021;74:508 –517
168. Russell-Jones D, Gall M-A, Niemeyer M,
Diamant M, Del Prato S. Insulin degludec results
in lower rates of nocturnal hypoglycaemia and
fasting plasma glucose vs. insulin glargine: ameta-analysis of seven clinical trials. Nutr MetabCardiovasc Dis 2015;25:898 –905
169. Mehta R, Goldenberg R, Katselnik D,
Kuritzky L. Practical guidance on the initiation,titration, and switching of basal insulins: a narrativereview for primary care. Ann Med 2021;53:
998–1009
170. Cowart K. Overbasalization: addressing
hesitancy in treatment intensi ﬁcation beyond
basal insulin. Clin Diabetes 2020;38:304 –310
171. Maiorino MI, Chiodini P , Bellastella G, Capuano
A, Esposito K, Giugliano D. Insulin and glucagon-like
peptide 1 receptor agonist combination therapy intype 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes
Care 2017;40:614 –624
172. Castellana M, Cignarelli A, Brescia F, Laviola
L, Giorgino F. GLP-1 receptor agonist added toinsulin versus basal-plus or basal-bolus insulintherapy in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review
and meta-analysis. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2019;
35:e3082
173. Rodbard HW, Visco VE, Andersen H, Hiort
LC, Shu DHW . Treatment intensi ﬁcation with
stepwise addition of prandial insulin aspart
boluses compared with full basal-bolus therapy(FullSTEP Study): a randomised, treat-to-targetclinical trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2014;
2:30–37
174. McCall AL. Insulin therapy and hypoglycemia.
Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am 2012;41:57 –87
175. Mannucci E, Monami M, Marchionni N.
Short-acting insulin analogues vs. regular humaninsulin in type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes
Obes Metab 2009;11:53 –59
176. Heller S, Bode B, Kozlovski P, Svendsen AL.
Meta-analysis of insulin aspart versus regularhuman insulin used in a basal-bolus regimen for
the treatment of diabetes mellitus. J Diabetes
2013;5:482 –491
177. de la Pe ~na A, Riddle M, Morrow LA, et al.
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics ofhigh-dose human regular U-500 insulin versus
human regular U-100 insulin in healthy obese
subjects. Diabetes Care 2011;34:2496 –2501
178. Wysham C, Hood RC, Warren ML, Wang T,
Morwick TM, Jackson JA. Effect of total daily
dose on ef ﬁcacy, dosing, and safety of 2 dose
titration regimens of human regular U500 insulinin severely insulin-resistant patients with type 2diabetes. Endocr Pract 2016;22:653 –665
179. Becker RHA, Dahmen R, Bergmann K,
Lehmann A, Jax T, Heise T. New insulin glargine
3 0 0u n i t s·m L - 1p r o v i d e sam o r ee v e na c t i v i t yp r o ﬁle
and prolonged glycemic control at steady stateS204 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

compared with insulin glargine 100 units · mL-1.
Diabetes Care 2015;38:637 –643
180. Riddle MC, Yki-J €arvinen H, Bolli GB, et al.
One-year sustained glycaemic control and lesshypoglycaemia with new insulin glargine 300 U/ml
compared with 100 U/ml in people with type 2
diabetes using basal plus meal-time insulin: theEDITION 1 12-month randomized trial, including6-month extension. Diabetes Obes Metab 2015;
17:835 –842
181. Yki-J €arvinen H, Bergenstal R, Ziemen M,
et al.; EDITION 2 Study Investigators. New insulinglargine 300 units/mL versus glargine 100 units/mLin people with type 2 diabetes using oral
agents and basal insulin: glucose control and
hypoglycemia in a 6-month randomized controlledtrial (EDITION 2). Diabetes Care 2014;37:3235 –
3243
182. Korsatko S, Deller S, Koehler G, et al. A
comparison of the steady-state pharmacokinetic andpharmacodynamic pro ﬁles of 100 and 200 U/mL
formulations of ultra-long-acting insulin degludec.
Clin Drug Investig 2013;33:515 –521
183. de la Pe ~na A, Seger M, Soon D, et al.
Bioequivalence and comparative pharmacodynamicsof insulin lispro 200 U/mL relative to insulin lispro(Humalog) 100 U/mL. Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev
2016;5:69 –75
184. Gentile S, Fusco A, Colarusso S, et al. A
randomized, open-label, comparative, crossovertrial on preference, ef ﬁcacy, and safety pro ﬁles of
lispro insulin U-100 versus concentrated lispro
insulin U-200 in patients with type 2 diabetesmellitus: a possible contribution to greatertreatment adherence. Expert Opin Drug Saf 2018;
17:445 –450
185. DeWitt DE, Hirsch IB. Outpatient insulin
therapy in type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus:scienti ﬁc review. JAMA 2003;289:2254 –2264
186. Akturk HK, Snell-Bergeon JK, Rewers A,
et al. Improved postprandial glucose with inhaled
technosphere insulin compared with insulin aspartin patients with type 1 diabetes on multiple dailyinjections: the STAT study. Diabetes Technol Ther
2018;20:639 –647
187. Hoogwerf BJ, Pantalone KM, Basina M,
Jones MC, Grant M, Kendall DM. Results of a24-week trial of technosphere insulin versusinsulin aspart in type 2 diabetes. Endocr Pract
2021;27:38 –43
188. Grant M, Heise T, Baughman R. Comparison
of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics ofinhaled technosphere insulin and subcutaneous
insulin lispro in the treatment of type 1 diabetes
mellitus. Clin Pharmacokinet 2022;61:413 –422
189. Valentine V, Newswanger B, Prestrelski S,
Andre AD, Garibaldi M. Human factors usabilityand validation studies of a glucagon autoinjector
in a simulated severe hypoglycemia rescue
situation. Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21:522 –530
190. Settles JA, Gerety GF, Spaepen E, Suico JG,
Child CJ. Nasal glucagon delivery is more
successful than injectable delivery: a simulated
severe hypoglycemia rescue. Endocr Pract 2020;26:407 –415
191. Herges JR, Galindo RJ, Neumiller JJ, Heien
HC, Umpierrez GE, McCoy RG. Glucagon prescribing
and costs among U.S. adults with diabetes, 2011-
2021. Diabetes Care 2023;46:620 –627
192. Kahn PA, Liu S, McCoy R, Gabbay RA, Lipska
K. Glucagon use by U.S. adults with type 1 andtype 2 diabetes. J Diabetes Complications 2021;
35:107882
193. Benning TJ, Heien HC, Herges JR, Creo AL,
Al Nofal A, McCoy RG. Glucagon ﬁll rates and cost
among children and adolescents with type 1diabetes in the United States, 2011-2021. DiabetesRes Clin Pract 2023;206:111026
194. Riddle MC, Herman WH. The cost of
diabetes care-an elephant in the room. Diabetes
Care 2018;41:929 –
932
195. Merative. Redbook (electronic version).
Accessed 1 July 2024. Available from https://www.micromedexsolutions.com
196. Data.Medicaid.gov. NADAC (National Average
Drug Acquisition Cost). Accessed 1 July 2024.Available from https://healthdata.gov/dataset/
NADAC-National-Average-Drug-Acquisition-Cost-
2024/3tha-57c6/about_data
197. Kang H, Lobo JM, Kim S, Sohn M-W. Cost-
related medication non-adherence among U.S.adults with diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2018;143:24 –33
198. Patel MR, Piette JD, Resnicow K, Kowalski-
Dobson T, Heisler M. Social determinants of
health, cost-related nonadherence, and cost-
reducing behaviors among adults with diabetes:ﬁndings from the National Health Interview
Survey. Med Care 2016;54:796 –803
199. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
Part D Senior Savings Model. Accessed 23 August2024. Available from https://www.cms.gov/
priorities/innovation/innovation-models/part-
d-savings-model
200. Library of Congress. H.R.5376 –Inﬂation
Reduction Act of 2022. Accessed 23 August 2024.Available from https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/5376
201. American Diabetes Association. State Insulin
Copay Caps. Accessed 23 August 2024. Available
from https://diabetes.org/tools-resources/affordable-insulin/state-insulin-copay-caps
202. Suran M. All 3 major insulin manufacturers
are cutting their prices-here ’s what the news
means for patients with diabetes. JAMA 2023;329:1337 –1339
203. Herges JR, Neumiller JJ, McCoy RG. Easing
theﬁnancial burden of diabetes management: a
guide for patients and primary care clinicians.Clin Diabetes 2021;39:427 –436
204. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. FDA Drug
Shortages. Current and Resolved Drug Shortagesand Discontinuations Reported to FDA. Accessed19 August 2024. Available from https://www.
accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/drugshortages/default.
cfm
205. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. Drug
Compounding and Drug Shortages. Accessed 6June 2024. Available from https://www .fda.
gov/drugs/human-drug-compounding/drug-compounding-and-drug-shortages
206. Ashraf AR, Mackey TK, Schmidt J, et al.
Safety and risk assessment of no-prescriptiononline semaglutide purchases. JAMA Netw Open2024;7:e2428280
207. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. FDA
alerts health care providers, compounders andpatients of dosing errors associated with com-
pounded injectable semaglutide products.
Accessed 29 July 2024. Available from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/human-drug-compounding/fda-alerts-health-care-providers-compounders-and-patients-dosing-errors-associated-compounded208. Lambson JE, Flegal SC, Johnson AR. Ad-
ministration errors of compounded semaglutide
reported to a poison control center-case series.J Am Pharm Assoc 2023;63:1643 –1645
209. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. FDA warns
consumers not to use counterfeit Ozempic(semaglutide) found in U.S. drug supply chain.
Accessed 18 January 2024. Available from https://
www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-warns-consumers-not-use-counterfeit-ozempic-semaglutide-found-us-drug-supply-chain
210. Neumiller JJ, Bajaj M, Bannuru RR, et al.
Compounded GLP-1 and dual GIP/GLP-1 receptor
agonists: a statement from the American
Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care. 2 December2024 [Epub ahead of print]. DOI: 10.2337/dci24-0091
211. Whitley HP , Trujillo JM, Neumiller JJ. Special
report: potential strategies for addressing GLP-1
and dual GLP-1/GIP receptor agonist shortages.
Clin Diabetes 2023;41:467 –473
212. Urva S, Coskun T , Loghin C, et al. The novel
dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptideand glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonisttirzepatide transiently delays gastric emptying
similarly to selective long-acting GLP-1 receptor
agonists. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:1886 –
1891
213. Skelley JW, Swearengin K, York AL, Glover
LH. The impact of tirzepatide and glucagon-likepeptide 1 receptor agonists on oral hormonal
contraception. J Am Pharm Assoc 2024;64:
204–211 e204
214. National Library of Medicine. National Center
for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov. Astudy of the effect of tirzepatide on how the bodyhandles birth control pills in healthy female
participants (NCT04172987). Accessed 12 June
2024. Available from https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04172987
215. U.S. Food & Drug Administration. Tirzepatide
prescribing information. Accessed 12 June 2024.Available from https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/
drugsatfda_docs/label/2022/215866s000lbl.pdf
216. Byun DJ, Braunstein R, Flynn J, et al. Immune
checkpoint inhibitor-associated diabetes: a single-institution experience. Diabetes Care 2020;43:3106 –
3109
217. Barroso-Sousa R, Barry WT, Garrido-Castro
AC, et al. Incidence of endocrine dysfunction
following the use of different immune checkpoint
inhibitor regimens: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:173 –182
218. Liu J, Zhou H, Zhang Y, et al. Reporting of
immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy-associated
diabetes, 2015-2019. Diabetes Care 2020;43:
e79–e80
219. Goncalves MD, Hopkins BD, Cantley LC.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, growth disorders,and cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;379:2052 –2062
220. Andr /C19e F, Ciruelos E, Rubovszky G, et al.;
SOLAR-1 Study Group. Alpelisib for PIK3CA-
mutated, hormone receptor-positive advanced
breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;380:1929 –1940
221. Andr /C19e F, Ciruelos EM, Juric D, et al. Alpelisib
plus fulvestrant for PIK3CA-mutated, hormonereceptor-positive, human epidermal growth factorreceptor-2-negative advanced breast cancer: ﬁnal
overall survival results from SOLAR-1. Ann Oncol
2021;32:208 –217
222. Rugo HS, Andr /C19e F, Yamashita T, et al. Time
course and management of key adverse eventsdiabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S205Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

during the randomized phase III SOLAR-1 study of
PI3K inhibitor alpelisib plus fulvestrant in patients
with HR-positive advanced breast cancer. Ann
Oncol 2020;31:1001 –1010
223. Gallagher EJ, Moore H, Lacouture ME, et al.Managing hyperglycemia and rash associatedwith alpelisib: expert consensus recommendationsusing the Delphi technique. NPJ Breast Cancer2024;10:12224. Goncalves MD, Farooki A. Management ofphosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibitor-associatedhyperglycemia. Integr Cancer Ther 2022;21:15347354211073163225. Cheung Y-MM, McDonnell M, Hamnvik O-PR. A targeted approach to phosphoinositide-3-kinase/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin-induced hyperglycemia. Curr Probl Cancer 2022;46:100776226. Ode KL, Ballman M, Battezzati A, et al.ISPAD Clinical Practice Consensus Guidelines
2022: management of cystic ﬁbrosis-related
diabetes in children and adolescents. PediatrDiabetes 2022;23:1212 –1228
227. Lo C, Toyama T, Oshima M, et al.Glucose-lowering agents for treating pre-existing and new-onset diabetes in kidney trans-plant recipients. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2020;8:CD009966228. Munoz Pena JM, Cusi K. Posttransplantdiabetes mellitus: recent developments inpharmacological management of hyperglycemia.J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2023;109:e1 –e11
229. Ram E, Lavee J, Tenenbaum A, et al.Metformin therapy in patients with diabetesmellitus is associated with a reduced risk ofvasculopathy and cardiovascular mortality after
heart transplantation. Cardiovasc Diabetol 2019;18:118
230. Vest LS, Koraishy FM, Zhang Z, et al.
Metformin use in the ﬁrst year after kid-
ney transplant, correlates, and associatedoutcomes in diabetic transplant recipients: aretrospective analysis of integrated registryand pharmacy claims data. Clin Transplant
2018;32:e13302
231. Thangavelu T, Lyden E, Shivaswamy V. A
retrospective study of glucagon-like peptide 1
receptor agonists for the management ofdiabetes after transplantation. Diabetes Ther2020;11:987 –994
232. Kukla A, Hill J, Merzkani M, et al. The use of
GLP1R agonists for the treatment of type 2diabetes in kidney transplant recipients. TransplantDirect 2020;6:e524
233. Singh P, Pesavento TE, Washburn K, Walsh
D, Meng S. Largest single-centre experience of
dulaglutide for management of diabetes mellitus
in solid organ transplant recipients. DiabetesObes Metab 2019;21:1061 –1065
234. Greeley SAW, Polak M, Njølstad PR, et al.
ISPAD Clinical Practice Consensus Guidelines2022: the diagnosis and management of monogenicdiabetes in children and adolescents. PediatrDiabetes 2022;23:1188 –1211
235. Christensen AS, Hædersdal S, Støy J, et al.
Efﬁcacy and safety of glimepiride with or without
linagliptin treatment in patients with HNF1A
diabetes (maturity-onset diabetes of the young
type 3): a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial (GLIMLINA). Diabetes
Care 2020;43:2025 –2033
236. Umpierrez GE, Davis GM, ElSayed NA,
et al. Hyperglycemic crises in adults with
diabetes: a consensus report. Diabetes Care
2024;47:1257 –1275
237. Wolfsdorf JI, Ratner RE. SGLT inhibitors for
type 1 diabetes: proceed with extreme caution.
Diabetes Care 2019;42:991 –993
238. Col acci M, Fralick J, Odutayo A, Fralick M.
Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors andrisk of diabetic ketoacidosis among adults with
type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-
analysis. Can J Diabetes 2022;46:10 –15
239. Bonora BM, Avogaro A, Fadini GP . Sodium-
glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors and diabetic
ketoacidosis: an updated review of the literature.
Diabetes Obes Metab 2018;20:25 –33
240. Blau JE, Tella SH, Taylor SI, Rother KI.
Ketoacidosis associated with SGLT2 inhibitor
treatment: analysis of FAERS data. Diabetes
Metab Res Rev 2017;33:10.1002/dmrr.2924
241. Tsapas A, Karagiannis T, Kakotrichi P,
et al. Comparative ef ﬁcacy of glucose-lowering
medications on body weight and blood pressure
in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic
review and network meta-analysis. Diabetes
Obes Metab 2021;23:2116 –2124
242. Davies MJ, D ’Alessio DA, Fradkin J, et al.
Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes,
2018. A consensus report by the American
Diabetes Association (ADA) and the EuropeanAssociation for the Study of Diabetes (EASD).
Diabetes Care 2018;41:2669 –2701S206 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 48, Supplement 1, January 2025Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/48/Supplement_1/S181/791515/dc25s009.pdf by Duke University Medical Center Library user on 10 August 2025

